 ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1984 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The term ''coun try /' as used in th is p u b l i c a t i o n, does not in all cases refer to a territorial en t i ty that is a state as understood by in te rna t ional law and practice; the term also covers some territorial en t i t ies that are not states but for wh i ch s ta t i s t ical data are m a in t a in ed and provided i n t e r n a t i o n a l ly on a separate and independent basis. International Standard Serial Number: ISSN 0250-7366 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1984 Wash ing ton, D .C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund J u ne 8, 1984 Dear Sir: I have the honor to t ransm it to you a copy of the In te rna t ional Monetary Fund 's Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1984, wh ich has been prepared in accordance w i th the provisions of Ar t ic le X IV, Section 3 of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should l ike to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely you rs, /s/ J. DE LAROS IERE Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director v ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS PART ONE Developments in the International Exchange Rate and Restrictive Systems I. Introduction Global Env i ronment Exchange Rate Arrangements Commercial and Exchange Policy Deve lopmen ts II. Main Developments in Exchange Arrangemen ts and Exchange Rates Developments A f fec t ing the C lass i f ica t ion of Exchange A r rangemen ts Developments in Currencies of Indus tr ial Countries Other Developments in Exchange Rate A r rangemen ts I I I. Main Developments in Res t r ic t ive Practices Imports and Import Payments Quantitative Import Controls Import Surcharges and Import Taxation Advance Import Deposits Other Measures Affecting Import Payments State Trading Exports and Export Proceeds Current Invisibles Payments Arrears Multiple Currency Practices Bilateral Payments Arrangements Capital Flows Gold IV. Main Developments in Regional Arrangements Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part * J Afghanistan Algeria Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Australia Austria Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium and Luxembourg Belize Benin Bhutan Bolivia Botswana Brazil 52 PART Two ^ Burma Burundi Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Central African Republic Chad Chile China, People's Republic of Colombia Comoros Congo, People's Republic of the Costa Rica Cyprus Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador 53 55 59 61 68 72 76 80 82 87 90 95 97 100 101 104 105 vii Page 3 3 4 5 7 10 11 12 17 17 18 23 26 26 27 27 32 35 37 40 41 45 46 114 116 119 122 124 125 128 131 134 140 147 149 152 155 157 161 162 164 168 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon Gambia, The Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Grenada Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran, Islamic Republic of Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kampuchea, Democratic* Kenya Korea Kuwa it Lao People's Democratic Republic Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Jamahiriya Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Page 174 178 182 184 187 190 194 202 205 207 210 214 220 222 225 228 230 233 235 237 238 244 247 260 264 267 270 274 277 282 285 289 292 295 298 302 304 306 308 . . 309 310 312 315 317 319 320 322 *The Fund has not received from the authorities of Demo- cratic Kampuchea the information required for a description of the exchange and trade system as of December 31, 1983. V l ll Mauritania Mauritius Mexico Morocco Nepal Netherlands Netherland Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Oman Pakistan Panama Papua New "Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Qatar Romania Rwanda St. Lucia St. Vincent and the Grenadines Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic Tanzania Thailand Togo Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Uganda United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Page 325 327 330 336 341 344 348 350 354 357 360 366 368 370 380 381 383 386 391 398 402 403 407 410 412 414 416 , . 418 421 422 425 427 429 432 436 441 446 449 453 455 460 462 465 467 472 475 479 483 490 494 496 499 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Upper Volta Uruguay Vanuatu Venezuela Viet Nam Western Samoa Yemen Arab Republic Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of Page 505 509 511 512 518 520 522 524 Yugoslavia Zaire Zambia Zimbabwe Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries List of Abbreviations Page 527 532 541 544 550 556 IX ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PART ONE ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Developments in the International Exchange Rate and Restrictive Systems I. Introduction The period covered by this Report is 1983 and, for major developments, the first quarter of 1984. The Report draws on information available to the Fund from a number of sources, including that provided in the course of consultation visits to member countries, and it has been prepared in close collaboration with national authorities. The Fund's Articles of Agreement provide for notification by member countries to the Fund of a comprehensive description of their exchange controls and exchange rate arrangements, and changes in these as they occur. Measures intensifying members' trade restrictions are subject to similar reporting provisions when a member has been granted an arrangement for the use of the Fund's resources. The Report centers on exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions, but it is also more comprehensive in that it presents other external economic policy measures and intergovernmental arrangements that may have balance of payments implications. As in the previous Report, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised; the description in the Report of a restrictive practice by a member does not imply that it is or is not being maintained consistently with the Fund's Articles, or that, if subject to Article VIII, it has or has not been approved by the Fund. Global Env ironment Global ou tput and trade staged a welcome recov- ery in 1983 from the depressed levels of the prev- ious year, and in f la t ion con t inued to subside. Trade protectionism, however, con t inued unaba ted as the effects of recession on emp loyment persisted in the world economy, and as exchange rates con t inued to respond to f inanc ial sector developments. An en- couraging development at the global level was the moderate strength of trade growth in relation to that of ou tpu t, for the first t ime since 1980 (Chart 1). Even so, the global trade e las t ic i ty rema ined we ll below its long-run leve l, u n d e r l i n i ng concerns as to persistent dampen ing effects of the resort to trade protectionism that has been widespread in recent years. Import demand strengthened in the industrial countries. The strengthening was ma in ly accounted for by surges of demand for imported goods in North America and, to a lesser ex ten t, in the Fed- eral Repub l ic of Germany and the Un i ted K ingdom. A noteworthy aspect was an inc ip ient increase in demand for energy products in some major indus- trial countries, as cyclical factors offset the underly- ing trend toward energy conservation. In the devel- oping countries the room for maneuver was constrained by balance of payments and debt considerations. Imports by oil exporting developing countries weakened sharply in response to ongoing budgetary d i f f icu l t ie s, reflecting lower oil prices. In non-oil developing countries, import vo lumes re- mained approximately unchanged owing to the widespread implementation of demand and supply 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE A R R A N G EM E N TS AND E X C H A N GE RESTR ICT IONS Growth of World Trade and Output, 1963-831 (Changes in percent) - 10 -10 IM PORTS BY M A J OR C O U N T RY G R O UP •**"" -10 60 40 20 0 -20 40 INTRODUCT ION forms of managed floating for pegged arrange- ments —in particular, arrangements involving a peg to a single currency. This movement in 1983 took the form of four countries adopting pegs to currency composites, rather than to single currencies, and to a shift of five countries from pegged to more flex- ible arrangements. Given the preponderance of peg- ging, combined with relatively infrequent adjust- ments to exchange rates, a feature of developing countries' exchange rate policies in recent years has been inertia in adjusting their exchange rates to regain and maintain international competitiveness. However, as the cost of an overvalued exchange rate in a recessionary world economy became in- creasingly burdensome during 1983, many devel- oping countries altered their exchange systems or operated the systems in such a way as to achieve a real devaluation of their currencies. In several in- stances, countries adopted arrangements embody- ing periodic adjustment of the exchange rate explic- itly to maintain competitiveness according to an indicator. This has also been a feature of several programs supported by the iise of Fund resources. As in 1982, all discrete adjustments of pegged currency exchange rates were in a downward direc- tion. The average nominal devaluation against the peg was on the order of 20 percent. However, adjustments in some countries were subs tan t ia l ly larger, ranging up to 78 percent for the zai're, 61 percent for the Bolivian peso, and 50 percent for the Guinea-Bissau peso and the Sierra Leone leone; the median change was 6 percent. V ir tua l ly all changes in the exchange rates of currencies with more flexible arrangements also represented depre- ciations against the U.S. dollar, and most exceeded the 12 percent weighted appreciation of the U.S. dollar itself against its major trading partners. The effect of these adjustments, in terms of inflation- adjusted performance, was an average (un- weighted) real appreciation of developing mem- bers' currencies of less than 1 percent in 1983. One feature of the flexibility in exchange rate ar- rangements in some countries was the temporary application of more than one exchange rate to cer- tain different groups of transactions, as a transi- tional step toward a new un i ta ry exchange rate. Commercial and Exchange Policy Developments With high unemp loyment s t i ll present in most industrial countries, and w i th severe balance of payments and debt problems c o n t i n u i ng in a large number of developing countries, the international exchange and trade system continued to be affected by restrictive and protectionist tendencies in 1983. Resort to protectionist measures continued to ham- per progress toward global economic integration and greater efficiency in resource allocation. Fol- lowing the pattern of the previous year, there was a preference in many countries in 1983 for actions of a quantitative rather than price or cost-related nat- ure, and most of the measures were of a commod- ity-specific character, or involved bilateral negotia- tions. On balance, it would appear that there was a continued tendency last year to increase barriers to trade through quantitative controls or agreements of various forms aimed at limiting imports, while at the same time —and to a lesser extent —reducing the level of restrictiveness in the form of taxes and tariffs or their equivalent exchange measures. Structural problems were still apparent in many industries, in part owing to the retarding influence of protected domestic markets on technological de- velopment and on reorganization to reflect changed price structures, inc lud ing continued adjustment to energy prices. The continuing spread of protectionism was a manifestation of a weakening of the trade policy stance of governments and of the increased fre- quency with which requests for barriers against foreign competition were granted. To some extent, the adoption of a stronger protectionist stand has been facilitated during the last several years by the drift away from commercial policies based on pub- lished schedules or protective tariffs toward non- tariff barriers —for example, safeguards, antidump- ing laws, and countervailing duties. The high degree of uncertainty about the invocation of these measures against a trading partner and the highly legalistic and political character of such decisions have made commercial policies particularly disrup- tive to the pattern of trade. In the past, the expecta- tion in some quarters has been that the drift toward protectionism would be at least arrested when re- covery from the protracted recession commenced. Despite recovery in some countries and sectors, unemployment has remained generally high, capac- ity utilization low, and protectionist measures strong. A multiplicity of arguments is advanced for protectionism, such as concerns about safeguarding employment and avoiding disruption in affected industries, the magnitude of bilateral trade bal- ances, the impact of exchange rate movements, strategic reasons, and retaliation against protection- ist measures in other countries. In effect, however, protectionist policies have been detrimental to 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS policies that promote structural adjustment and a sustained economic recovery. There were several antiprotectionism pledges by governments in 1983—for example, those at the OECD ministerial meeting, the Williamsburg summit meeting of heads of state, and UNCTAD VI. An issue which has been increasingly contentious is that of subsidi- zation of exporting industries. This has been a pre- dominant source of complaints of un fa ir competi- tion, and a major source of friction in the steel and agricultural sectors. The concern has broadened from export subsidies per se to official support through industrial targeting that may affect the competitiveness of a range of export sectors; it has raised demands for matching subsidies and other forms of intervention. The trend toward increased reliance on quantita- tive controls and quotas was particularly evident in industrial countries. These measures were not only intended to restrict trade among themselves, but were also aimed at limiting market access to manu- factured exports of the more advanced developing countries. Security and infant industry considera- tions played an increasing role in 1983 as argu- ments for increased protection in such sectors as electronics and high technology. In more traditional sectors (agriculture, textiles, automobiles, steel), the overriding reason for the intensification of pro- tection continued to be the need to maintain em- ployment levels in the face of structural maladjust- ments which had led to a considerable loss of competitiveness. There were, however, two impor- tant exceptions to this trend toward increased re- strictiveness among major trading countries. First was the EC Council's decision to review regula- tions under the Common Agricultural Policy with the intention of bringing domestic prices for certain farm products more in line with world market prices. Agricultural sectors in general continued to be the most intensely regulated and supported. The second was a number of measures taken by Japan to open up the economy to foreign competition. In the textile and steel sectors a number of bilat- eral agreements were concluded, although un i la t- eral measures to restrict imports of steel and steel products from newly industrialized countries inten- sified in 1983, with adverse consequences for the latter countries' balance of payments. These actions were accompanied by so-called voluntary export restraints on the part of some countries, limiting trade flows particularly in electronics and automobiles. Among developing countries, several oil- exporting countries intensified quan t i ta t ive import 6 restrictions, increased tariffs, and adopted ex- change rate measures aimed at protecting the bal- ance of payments from the effects of a further decrease of oil prices in the world market. Among other developing countries, an increased number made use of more realistic exchange rate policies to improve their external position, usua l ly w i th in the framework of f inanc ial programs implemented in conjunction with the use of Fund resources. A large number of developing countries, however, intro- duced new or intensified existing restrictions on current invisibles, particularly those relating to ex- change allowances for travel and related expenses, and income remittances to nonresidents. Also, sev- eral major developing countries facing severe debt- servicing problems resorted to relatively intense and comprehensive exchange restrictions on an emergency basis, and disorderly and ad hoc restric- tions continued to be marked in this group. As noted earlier, despite a restructuring of external obligations of unprecedented proportions external payments arrears increased further from the high level in the previous year. The number of bilateral payments agreements between Fund members declined again in 1983. As in recent years, arrangements not involving the pay- ments system (i.e., voluntary export restraints and other bilateral trade agreements, including barter and countertrade arrangements) were actively used in 1983. Countertrade arrangements have become more widely used over the last few years, as coun- tries have attempted to cope with the disruptions of normal financing arrangements owing to the dis- turbed debt situation. The Fund has continued to voice its concern at the proliferation of countertrade arrangements, which have discriminatory and re- strictive features similar to those of bilateral pay- ments agreements, and thus are detrimental to the promotion of a multilateral trading system. Even though overshadowed by the impact of quantitative restrictions, price-related measures were also used in 1983 by some countries in their attempts to influence the structure of external trans- actions. Tariff and du ty increases were largely ab- sent in the industrial countries. In fact, lower tariffs on imports from developing countries were adopted by industrial countries under the Generalized Sys- tem of Preferences (GSP), and other reductions in import duties were undertaken by several countries outside the GSP; in some cases, however, condi- tions for GSP e l ig ib i l i ty were tightened. Among developing countries, tariff and import du ty reduc- tions were adopted in a few countries and increases were enacted in many others. While changes in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RATES advance import deposit requirements were only minor in 1983, there were a number of changes in regulations affecting import payments or the proce- dures of such payments, which on balance tended to ease conditions on import payments. As in previous years, a number of developing countries adopted measures aimed at promoting exports, especially in the form of increased fiscal incentives or special credit facilities supporting export activities. Taxes and subsidies on international transactions administered through the exchange system, and therefore subject to Fund jur isd ic t ion in accordance with Article VIII of the Articles of Agreement, continued to be employed in a number of devel- oping countries, and in two industrial countries. Recourse to mu l t ip le exchange rate practices had increased in 1981 and 1982, and the vo lume of Fund members' transactions conducted under such arrangements had also increased. In 1983, how- ever, the tendency toward fragmentation of ex- change markets was reversed, as a number of mem- bers un if ied exchange rates, often in the context of programs in support of the use of the Fund 's f inan- cial resources. The pattern of international capital flows last year was not determined to an important extent by changes in regulations affecting such flows. As in previous years, the main forces behind international capital movements in 1983 were interest rate differ- entials, expectations regarding exchange rate move- ments, and the large borrowing requirements of a number of countries, inc lud ing some oil exporters and non-oil developing countries faced with severe debt-servicing d iff icu l t ies. The long-term trend toward liberalization of capital flows continued in 1983 as industrial and developing countries on the whole tended to liberalize both portfolio and direct investment flows. Greater openness of capital mar- kets was pursued in order to remove impediments to market determination of exchange rates, as sus- tained imbalances of controls could be reflected in over- or undervaluation of exchange rates. How- ever, in several developing countries experiencing large external disequilibria, existing regulations were administered more restrictively in an attempt to curb capital flight. Despite this, capital flows through illegal parallel exchange markets increased substantially in some instances. Total Fund membership remained unchanged in 1983 at 146 countries. During 1983, 3 countries, Belize (June 14, 1983), Iceland (September 19, 1983), and Antigua and Barbuda (November 22, 1983) accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Articles of Agreement, raising to 59 the number of members that have formally accepted these obligations. Eighty seven countries were therefore availing themselves of the transitional arrangements under Article X IV, Sec- tion 2. In addition to those members that have accepted the obligations of Article VIII, 28 coun- tries availing themselves of the transitional ar- rangements of Article XIV maintain exchange sys- tems which are free or virtually free of restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. Thirteen of these countries are mem- bers of the West African Monetary Un ion or the Central African Monetary Area. II. Main Developments in Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Rates This section reports on major developments in members' exchange rates and exchange ar- rangements as notified to the Fund in accordance with members' obligations under Article IV, Sec- tion 2(0), of the Articles of Agreement. Devel- opments in mu l t ip le exchange rate arrangements are summarized in a separate section on mu l t ip le cur- rency practices. Surveillance of exchange arrangements of mem- bers by the Fund, as required under Article IV, Section 3, is normally conducted in the context of consultations, but changes introduced dur ing the intervening period between consultations are noti- fied to the Executive Board. To fac i l i ta te the imple- mentation of the Fund's surveillance over exchange rate policies, members' exchange arrangements are classified under three broad headings, as follows: (1) currencies that are pegged to a single currency or to a composite of currencies (including the SDR); (2) currencies whose exchange rates, al- though not pegged, have displayed limited flexibil- ity compared with either a single currency or a group of currencies; and (3) currencies whose ex- change rates are more flexible. The basic distin- guishing factor for the classification of members' exchange arrangements is the extent and form of the flexibility that these arrangements permit, and this criterion is also applied to subcategorize each of the broad headings in Table 1. Under the provisions of the amended Article IV, Fund members have the right to maintain exchange arrangements of their choice, as well as certain 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution oo Table 1. Exchange Rate Arrangements as of March 31, 19841 Pegged French f ranc B en in Cameroon Cen tral A f r i c an Repub l ic- Chad Comoros Congo Gabon Ivo ry Coast M a li N iger Senegal Togo Upper Volta O ther currency B h u t an ( I n d i an rupee) Equa to r ial Gu in ea (Sp. P ta) G amb i a. The (£ s tg .) Lesotho ( S A R) Swaz i land ( S A R) SDR Bu rma B u r u n di Gu in e a3 I r a n, I s l am ic Rep. of Jordan Kenya7 Rw anda Sao Tome and P r in c ipe Seychelles V a n u a tu V i et N am An t igua and Barbuda Bahamas3 Barbados Belize Bo l iv ia D j ibou ti Dom in ica Dom in ican Rep.3 Egypt3 El Salvador3 E th iop ia Grenada Gua tema la H a i ti Honduras Iraq U .S. do l lar Lao People's Democratic Rep. Liberia L ibya N ica ragua3 Oman Panama Paraguay St. Luc ia St. V in c ent and Grenad ines Sierra Leone Sudan3 Su r iname Sy r ian Arab Rep .3 Tr in idad and Tobago Venezue la3 Yemen Arab Rep. Yemen, People's Democratic Rep. F l e x i b i l i ty L im i ted Aga inst a S ing le Currency or Group of Currencies S ing le currency2 Cooperative a r rangemen ts A f g h a n i s t a n3 B a h r a i n4 Ghana G u y a na M a ld iv es Qatar4 Saudi Arab ia4 Tha i land U n i t ed A rab Em ira tes4 B e lg ium3 Denma rk France G e rm any. Fed. R e p u b l ic of Ire land I ta ly6 Luxembourg3 N e th e r l ands Adjusted according to a set of indicators B raz il Chile3 Colombia Peru3 Portugal Somalia5 More F lex ib le Other managed floating A rgen t ina Costa Rica3 Ecuador3'4 Greece Gu inea- Bissau Ice land Ind ia8 Indones ia Israel Jama ica Korea Mexico3 Morocco New Zealand N ige r ia Pakistan Ph i l ipp in es Spain Sri Lanka Turkey Uganda3 Western Samoa Yugos lav ia Zai're O ther composite A lge r ia3 A u s t r ia Bang ladesh3 Botswana Cape Verde Ch in a, People's Rep .3 Cyprus F i ji F i n l a n d7 H u n g a ry K uw a it Madagascar M a l awi Ma lays ia7 M a l ta M a u r i t a n ia M a u r i t i us Nepal Norway Papua New G u i n ea R om a n ia Singapore Solomon I s l a n ds Sweden Tan/ .ania Tun i s ia Zamb ia Z imbabwe I n d e p e n d e n t ly floating Au s t ra l ia Canada Japan Lebanon South A f r ica U n i t ed K ingdom U n i t ed States U ruguay 70ms 3 o Sn >.§m > /O /C O m m 1 O > 2 ms>§m 70m C/5 H ?3 q O on 'No cu r rent i n f o rm a t i on is a v a i l a b le r e l a t i ng to Democratic K ampu ch e a. A ll members whose currenc ies a re pegged to a s ing le currency do so at present w i t h in zero fluctuation ma rg in s. Membe rs whose currenc ies are pegged to the SDR or "Other Composite" m a i n t a in t h e ir exchange rates w i t h in /ero or very na r row m a rg in s, seldom exceed ing ± 1 percent about the peg. W i t h in the " F l e x i b i l i ty L im i t e d" category the "S ing le Currency" subcategory l is ts those members th at are observed to m a i n t a in an exchange a r r ang em ent such t h at the ir exchange rate f luc tua tes w i th a v a r i a b i l i ty e q u i v a l e nt to 2.25 percent m a rg ins w i th respect to ano ther member's cu r rency. The subc la s s i f ica t ion "Cooperative A r rangemen t s" l i s ts the coun t r ies p a r t i c i p a t i ng in the European Mone ta ry System (EMS ). W i th the excep t ion of I t a l y, w h i ch m a i n t a i ns ma rg ins of 6 percen t, these coun tr ies m a i n t a in 2.25 percent ma rg ins w i th respect to th e ir cross rates, based on the cen t ral rates expressed in terms of the European Currency U n it (ECU ). Members w i th exchange a r rangemen ts l is ted u n d er the "More Flexible" category are d iv ided on the basis of the e x t e nt to w h i ch the au tho r i t ies i n t e r v e ne in the se t t ing of exchange rates. In some instances the exchange rate is allowed to move c o n t i n u o u s ly over t im e; if the au tho r i t ies in te rvene at all they do so on ly to i n f l u e n c e, but not to n eu t r a l i z e, the speed of exchange rate movemen t; the exchange arrangement is c lass if ied as " Ind ep end en t ly F loa t ing ." A l t e r n a t i v e l y, the exchange rate may be set for a short i n t e r v a l, u s u a l ly one day to one week, and the au tho r i t ies stand ready to buy and sell foreign exchange at the specified rate ( the "Managed Floating" g roup ). 2A11 exchange rates have shown l im i t ed f lex ib i l i ty aga inst the U .S. do l l a r. 3Member m a i n t a i ns d u al exchange marke ts i n v o l v i ng m u l t i p le exchange a r r ang em en t s. The a r rangement shown is th at m a i n t a i n ed in the major m a rk e t. 4Exchange rates are de te rm ined on the basis of a f ix ed r e l a t i o n s h ip to the SDR. w i t h in ma rg ins of up to ± 7.25 percent. Howeve r, because of the ma in tenance of a r e l a t i v e ly s tab le r e l a t ion sh ip w i th the U .S. do l l a r, these margins are not a lways observed. 5The exchange rate is ma in ta ined w i t h in ove ra ll m a rg ins of ± 7 .5 percent about the f ix ed s h i l l i n g / SDR re la t ion sh ip; however, the exchange rate w i ll be re -eva lua ted wh en i n d i c a t i ve m a rg ins of ± 2 . 25 percent a re exceeded. 6Ma rg ins of ± 6 percent are m a i n t a i n ed w i th respect to the currenc ies of other coun t r ies p a r t i c i p a t i ng in the exchange rate mechan ism of the EMS. 7The exchange rate is m a i n t a i n ed w i t h in m a rg ins of ± 2.25 percent. xThe exchange rate is m a i n t a i n ed w i t h in ma rg ins of ± 5 percent on e i t h er side of a we igh ted composite of the currencies of the m a in t r ad ing partners. ^Member m a in t a ins a system of advance announcement of exchange rates. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RATES obligations regarding the communication of these arrangements to the Fund. In accordance with these obligations, members notified the Fund during 1983 of some 60 changes in their arrangements. The changes included measures that resulted in a reclassification between or within the three cate- gories described above, discrete adjustments of the exchange rate in terms of the peg, and a small number of changes in exchange rate margins and the form of composite peg. Included also were large discrete adjustments of exchange rates classified in the "More Flexible" category. To facilitate the sym- metry with which pegged and flexible exchange rates were monitored, members' effective exchange rates were also monitored on a continuous basis, and large changes on a "real" inflation-adjusted basis were notified to the Executive Board of the Fund on an experimental basis. Six such notifica- tions of changes in excess of 10 percent in real effective rates since the preceding consultation with the member (or previous notification) occurred in 1983, when the system was introduced. During the February 1982 review of members' exchange regimes by the Executive Board, it was noted that under the provisions of the Second Amendment the international exchange rate system had continued to evolve toward greater flexibility of arrangements. A major aspect of this evolution has been the substitution of various forms of managed floating for pegged arrangements, in particular, ar- rangements involving a peg to a single currency. Another feature of the movement away from single currency pegs has been the increased use of cur- rency composites, including the SDR, that have yielded more continuous adjustments of exchange rates in line with variations in competitiveness. This trend toward the adoption of more flexible exchange arrangements continued in 1983 and the first quarter of 1984. Of the 18 members that changed their exchange arrangements in this period 5 ceased to peg their currencies (including one de facto peg) and adopted more flexible exchange rate arrangements. Another member that previously maintained its currency with limited flexibility against the U .S. dollar adopted a managed float. Four other members whose currencies were previ- ously pegged to the U .S. dollar adopted currency composite pegs (the SDR in 2 cases), while 3 other members gave up pegging to the SDR basket and adopted currency composite pegs tailored to reflect more closely their particular trading patterns. Of 4 members whose changes involved reclassifica- tions within the more flexible group, one (Aus- tralia) shifted from a managed float to an independ- ently floating regime, one (Peru) moved from adjusting its currency on the basis of a set of indi- cators to a managed float but subsequently reverted to the previous arrangement of adjusting on the basis of a set of indicators, and one (Israel) reverted from an independently floating arrangement to a managed float. Only one member (Sierra Leone) changed from a more flexible exchange ar- rangement to pegging its currency to that of another member. However, the pegging was preceded by a large depreciation of the domestic currency in the official market and a simplification of the exchange system. Another feature of developing country Fund members in 1983 and in the first quarter of 1984 was the increased use of inflation differen- tials, alone or in combination with other factors, as an indicator for automatic or quasiautomatic adjust- ment of an otherwise pegged arrangement. As of the end of the first quarter 1984, 8 members had incorporated in their exchange arrangements a pol- icy of periodic adjustment of the exchange rate to maintain international competitiveness according to such an indicator, while 5 other members undertook such a policy as part of a program supported by the use of Fund resources in 1983 and in the first quarter of 1984. The aggregative impact of these changes was the following: The number of Fund members with more flexible exchange rate arrangements increased from 33 at end-1982 to 38 at end of March 1984 (of a total membership of 146).l Single-currency pegged arrangements declined from 56 to 51 over the same period, while composite currency pegged ar- rangements increased from 38 to 39. Arrangements in the intermediate group of "Flexibility Limited" between pegged and flexible arrangements declined from 18 to 17. Since the inception of the present classification system, at end-1981, the proportion of Fund members with "More Flexible" ar- rangements has risen from 21 percent to 26 percent, and those with composite currency pegged ar- rangements from 25 percent to 27 percent. How- ever, use by members of SDR pegs declined-from 10 percent to ll/2 percent of the membership, as composites tailored to individual trade patterns were preferred. At the end of March 1984, the currencies of 51 members were pegged to a single currency (33 to the U .S. dollar, 13 to the French franc, 2 to the South African rand, and 1 each to the Indian rupee, the pound sterling, and the Spanish peseta). Eleven currencies were pegged to the SDR and 28 to other 'No information is available on Democratic Kampuchea. 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS currency composites. In all, therefore, 90 members had currencies classified under the "Pegged" cate- gory. Seventeen members maintained exchange ar- rangements classified in the "Flexibility Limited" category. Within this grouping 9 currencies were in the subclassification "Single Currency" (all against the U .S. dollar) as a result of having their exchange rates fluctuate within the equivalent of margins of 21A percent or less against an identifiable single currency of another member; the other 8 currencies as shown in Table 1 were those of countries main- taining cooperative arrangements under the EMS. Thirty-eight members maintained exchange ar- rangements in the "More Flexible" category; of these, 6 adjusted their exchange rates according to a set of indicators, 24 managed floating rates, and the currencies of 8 members floated independently. Developments Affecting the Classification of Exchange Arrangements During 1983, 16 members notified the Fund of changes in their exchange arrangements involving reclassification under the Fund's classification scheme for exchange arrangements (the end-year classification is shown in Table 1). Five of the reclassifications involved changes from a "Pegged" exchange arrangement to a "More Flexible" category. Ecuador informed the Fund of several changes to its dual exchange market ar- rangements consisting of an official and a free mar- ket. On March 19, the official exchange rate of the sucre was devalued and Ecuador announced that with effect from March 23, the sucre would be depreciated on a daily basis against the U .S. dollar at a rate equivalent to 2.9 percent a month. Ecuador was therefore reclassified from the category "Pegged: U .S. Dollar" to the "More Flexible: Other Managed Floating" category. Zaire notified the Fund that, with effect from September 12, the fixed parity of the zai're in terms of the SDR would be abolished, and that the official rate would be ad- justed daily on the basis of the free market rate (which, effective October 4, 1983, would be deter- mined on the interbank foreign exchange market). At the same time, Zaire devalued the zai're and introduced a transitional dual exchange rate regime comprising an official rate, at which sales of foreign exchange for official debt servicing, petro- leum imports, and certain priority government transactions take place, and a free market rate for all remaining transactions. The dual exchange rate regime was to be so managed that the official rate 10 would be maintained initially within 10 percent (within 5 percent effective October 14, 1983) of the rate in the free market (the major market); the official and free market rates were unified on Feb- ruary 24, 1984. Zaire was reclassified from the category "Pegged: U .S. Dollar" to the "More Flex- ible: Other Managed Floating" category. Jamaica informed the Fund that, with effect from Novem- ber 24, the pre-existing official, CARICOM and par- allel market rates had been unified into a single exchange rate. Since then the spot exchange rate has been fixed jointly by the commercial banks on a daily basis within a band prescribed by the Bank of Jamaica and reviewed on a fortnightly basis. Jamaica's exchange arrangement was reclassified from the category "Pegged: U .S. Dollar" to the "More Flexible: Other Managed Floating" cate- gory. Following the devaluation of the Guinea- Bissau peso on December 23, Guinea-Bissau an- nounced that the exchange rate in terms of the SDR would be adjusted flexibly by the National Bank on the basis of domestic price developments, external market conditions, export trends, and the overall balance of payments positions. On the basis of these changes, Guinea-Bissau was reclassified from the category "Pegged: SDR" to the category "More Flexible: Other Managed Floating." Effective Ju- ly 1, Somalia adopted a new exchange arrangement whereby the Somali shilling would be pegged to the SDR and would be adjusted for relative price devel- opments in Somalia against the five countries in- cluded in the SDR basket. The exchange rate has been maintained within margins of ± 7.5 percent around the fixed relationship to the SDR adjusted for relative price developments; however, the ex- change rate is re-evaluated when indicative margins of ± 2.25 percent are exceeded. The Somali shil- ling was reclassified from the category "Pegged: SDR" to the "More Flexible: Adjusted According to a Set of Indicators" category. During the period under review, there were six reclassifications within the "Pegged" group. Four countries changed their peg from the U .S. dollar to either a composite currency peg or to the SDR peg, and the other 2 countries changed their peg from the SDR currency basket to another composite currency peg. Nepal announced that with effect from June 1, the Nepalese rupee would be pegged to a composite of several currencies reflecting Nepal's trade pat- tern. On the basis of the new currency basket, the Nepal Rastra Bank has quoted daily the midpoint rate of the rupee for the U .S. dollar only. Prev- iously, Nepal maintained exchange rates that were fixed in terms of both the U .S. dollar and the Indian ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RATES rupee. In view of these changes, Nepal has been reclassified from the category "Pegged: U .S. Dol- lar" to "Pegged: Other Composite." Romania notified the Fund of several changes in its exchange system. A unified commercial exchange rate was established on July 1 for all merchandise transac- tions in convertible currencies, as well as for a large proportion of service transactions and capital ac- count transactions. In addition, the unified com- mercial rate was pegged to a basket of currencies of Romania's principal trading partners in convertible currencies, with the U .S. dollar having a weight of 40 percent. Romania has accordingly been reclas- sified from the category "Pegged: U .S. Dollar" to "Pegged: Other Composite." Rwanda announced that with effect from September 6, the Rwanda franc would no longer be pegged to the U .S. dollar, but to the SDR. Burundi informed the Fund that with effect from November 22, the Burundi franc would be pegged to the SDR and no longer to the U.S dollar. Reflecting these changes, Rwanda and Burundi were reclassified from the category "Pegged: U .S. Dollar" to "Pegged: SDR." Mauritius announced that with effect from Feb- ruary 28, the Mauritian rupee would be detached from an SDR peg and instead pegged to a com- posite of several currencies reflecting mainly Mauritius' pattern of trade. Zambia notified the Fund that with effect from Ju ly 6, the Zambian kwacha would also be detached from the SDR and pegged to a new basket of currencies reflecting Zambia's trade with its major trading partners. On the basis of these changes, Mauritius and Zambia have been reclassified from the category "Pegged: SDR" to "Pegged: Other Composite." The exchange regimes of a further five countries were reclassified to or from the "More Flexible: Other Managed Floating" category. Australia in- formed the Fund that, with effect from Decem- ber 12, the Reserve Bank would discontinue an- nouncing indicative exchange rates for the Australian dollar in terms of the U .S. dollar, based on a trade-weighted currency basket and would permit the spot exchange rate for the dollar to be determined by the market. The Reserve Bank had ceased to quote the forward exchange rate with effect from October 30. Accordingly, Australia was reclassified within the "More Flexible" category from "Other Managed Floating" to "Independently Floating." Peru notified the Fund that with effect from September 1, monthly rates of depreciation of the sol in terms of the U .S. dollar in the official market would be preannounced for three months in advance. In accordance with that policy, mon th ly rates of depreciation of the sol against the U .S. dollar were announced for the three months through November 1983. It was noted also that the official exchange rate for the sol would continue to be adjusted on a daily basis. However, as the set of indicators previously used would not determine these adjustments, Peru was reclassified within the "More Flexible" category from "Adjusted Accord- ing to a Set of Indicators" to "Other Managed Float- ing." Israel informed the Fund that it would main- tain a policy of continuous adjustment of the exchange rate of the shekel in relation to a basket of currencies reflecting the composition of Israel's foreign trade. On the basis of these changes, Israel was reclassified within the "More Flexible" cate- gory from "Independently Floating" to "Other Managed Floating." Indonesia announced on March 30 that the rupiah was devalued and that the exchange rate would be managed flexibly in order to meet any unexpected external developments. Re- flecting these changes, the Indonesian rupiah was reclassified from the category "Flexibility Limited Against a Single Currency" to the "More Flexible: Other Managed Floating" category. Sierra Leone notified the Fund that with effect from Ju ly 1 the official exchange rate was devalued and that the official and commercial exchange rates were uni- fied. In addition, it was stated that the leone would be pegged to the U .S. dollar. Accordingly, Sierra Leone has been reclassified from the category "More Flexible: Other Managed Floating" to the category "Pegged: U .S. Dollar." Developments in Currencies of Industrial Countries2 No major changes occurred in the institutional arrangements of, or participation in, the EMS dur- ing the period under review. Pressures on exchange rates within the EMS reappeared, however, in 1983. A realignment of the parity grid took place on March 21. The realignment was the seventh since the EMS was established in March 1979 and the first in which the central rates for all the EMS currencies were adjusted: deutsche mark ( + 5.5 percent), Netherlands guilder (+ 3.5 percent), Dan- ish krone ( + 2.5 percent), Belgium-Luxembourg 2Refers to the classification of countries as given in the Fund's International Financial Statistics. Industrial countries comprise: Australia, Austria, Be lg ium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, I ta ly, Japan, Lux- embourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Spain, Swe- den, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and the United States. 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE A R RANG EM EN TS AND E X C H A N GE RESTR ICT IONS franc ( + 1 .5 percent), French franc (-2.5 percent), Italian lira (-2.5 percent), Irish pound (-3.5 per- cent). Changes in the ECU central rates showed the greatest depreciation for the Irish pound (3.6 per- cent), French franc (2.6 percent), and the I ta l ian lira (2.6 percent); while the greatest appreciations were shown by the deutsche mark (5.4 percent) and the Netherlands guilder (3.4 percent). As with pre- vious realignments, the changes had become neces- sary because of the continued differences in the underlying strength of the participating countries' external positions that reflected, in tu rn, diver- gences in economic policies and cost-price perfor- mance. At the time of parliamentary elections in the Federal Republic of Germany and municipal elec- tions in France on March 6 there had been down- ward pressure on the French franc and upward pres- sure on the deutsche mark. The French franc required support at its lower intervention point and pressure did not ease un t il the realignment on March 21. In May, to support the French Govern- ment's stabilization measures, the European Com- mission was authorized to arrange borrowings on international markets under the Commun i ty loan mechanism, for onlending to the Repub l ic of France. The arrangements, for medium-term fi- nance, amounting to the equ iva lent of ECU 4 bil- lion, were completed in Ju ly and Augus t. During 1983, the U .S. dollar appreciated against all other currencies of the industrial countries ex- cept the Japanese yen (Table 2). The yen showed a slight appreciation (1 .2 percent on an end-year basis) against the U .S. dollar. France (19.4 percent) registered the largest depreciation against the U .S. dollar, while Canada showed the least depreciation (1.2 percent) against the U .S. dollar. A striking feature of exchange market developments du r ing most of 1983 was therefore the continued strength of the U .S. dollar. After hav ing appreciated by 10.4 percent in nominal effective terms3 in 1982, the U .S. dollar rose by a fur ther 9.4 percent in 1983— influenced by a reduction in the rate of domestic inflation, improvements in the profitability of busi- ness investment and grow th, re la t ive ly high interest rates on dollar-denominated assets, and, to some extent, by unsettled economic and political condi- tions elsewhere in the world. Between February and August, the dollar advanced against most major 3Based on the Fund's mu l t i la teral exchange rate model (MERM ), in wh ich the imp l i c it we igh t ing s t ruc tu re takes ac- count of the relative importance of a coun t ry 's t rad ing par tners in its direct bilateral re la t ionsh ips w i th th em, of compe t i t ive relationships w i th "third countries" in pa r t icu lar ma rke t s, and of estimated e las t ic i t ies a f fec t ing trade f low s. 12 currencies, offse t t ing by varying degrees some previous weakening around the turn of the year. The dollar reached a record level in terms of the SDR in Augu s t, and then depreciated gradually in September and October, a l though regaining its August level by the end of the year. There were sizable movements in the effective exchange rates of the currencies of most industrial countries in 1983. In effective (MERM) end-of- year terms, the largest appreciations were recorded by the U . S. dollar and the Japanese yen (9.4 per- cent and 8.7 percent, respectively). Canada was the only other industrial country to register an apprecia- tion of its currency in effec t ive terms (3 .1 percent) during the period under review. The largest depre- ciations in effective terms were recorded by France (11 .4 percent), Ireland (10.4 percent), and Italy (8.5 percent). Other Developments in Exchange Rate Arrangements In the course of 1983, a number of modifications of exchange arrangements (over 40) that did not entail a change in the Fund 's classification of the arrangements were notified to the Fund. These modifications involved, in the main, discrete ad- jus tmen ts in the exchange va lue of pegged and flexibly determined currencies. A few instances in- vo lv ing changes in the mode or pace of change of preannounced exchange rates, adjustments of cur- rency baskets determining the exchange value of currencies (w i thout necessarily invo lv ing a change in the level of the peg), and adjustments of margins about the peg were also notified to the Fund. As in 1982, all countries with pegged currencies that changed their exchange rates devalued. Those with currencies linked to the U .S. dollar or to cur- rency composites w i th a heavy dollar weight ef- fected devaluations because of the strength of the U .S. dollar and domestic policy considerations. In other instances, devaluations were undertaken in order to correct for real appreciations that had taken place over a number of years. Other members low- ered the international va lue of their currencies on a regular basis, with some being guided by an explicit set of indicators; these members included a small number that preannounced their exchange rates with a view to reducing uncer ta in ty and to affecting inflationary expectations. The magnitudes of the devaluations tended to be smaller for countries with composite currency pegs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RATES Table 2. Exchange Rate Movements of Currencies of Industrial Countries with "Cooperative" or "Independently Floating" Arrangements (December 3J, 1982-December 31, 1983) Australia (dollar) Belgian/Luxembourg (franc) Canada (dollar) Denmark (krone) France (franc) Germany, Fed. Rep. of (deutsche mark) Ireland (pound) Italy (lira) Japan (yen) Netherlands (guilder) United Kingdom (pound sterling) United States (dollar) Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. Dec. 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 30, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 31, 1982 1983 1982 1983 1982 1983 1982 1983 1982 1983 1982 1983 1982 1983 1982 1983 1982 1983 1982 1983 1983 1983 1982 1983 Exchange Rate (Currency Un i ts per US$) (End of Period) .01978 .10865 .92 .64 1 1 46 55 1 1 8 9 6 8 2 2, 0 0 .2294 .2444 .384 .8750 .725 .3475 .3765 .7238 .7161 .8811 1,370.0 1,659.5 235.00 232. .625 .065 .20 2, 3. 0 0 .61939 .68937 Percentage Appreciation ( + )/ Depreciation ( — ) Against US$ MERM -8.02 -15.7 -1.2 -15.1 -2 .8 -4 .8 +3 .1 -6 .9 -19.4 -11 .4 -12.8 -3 .0 -18.7 -10 .4 -17.4 - h i. 2 -14.4 -10.2 -8 .5 +8 .7 -4 .0 -1 .2 + 9 .4 MERM Index (1975 = 100) 85 .25 82 .86 93 .58 89 .13 89 .36 92 . 11 84 .43 78 .57 75 .06 66 .49 128 .57 124 .66 75, .96 68, .06 53, .41 48, .87 .19 .71 .18 ,46 144, 156, 119 114, 83.95 82, .93 .39 .51 1 1 8, 129. Source: International Monetary Fund, International Financial Statistics. Among those members with pegged currencies that devalued in 1983, Bangladesh changed its in- tervention currency to the U .S. dollar on Janu- ary 11, to a mid-rate of Tk 24.50 = US$1, repre- senting a depreciation of 0.6 percent against the U.S. dollar (Table 3). On November 21, Bolivia altered the value of the peso to a mid-rate of $b 505.1 = US$1 representing a 60.8 percent de- valuation against the U.S. dollar. Effective Novem- ber 22, Burundi adopted an SDR peg and set the value of the Burundi franc at FBu 122.70 = SDR 1, entailing a 22.9 percent depreciation against the U.S. dollar. Ecuador changed the official exchange rate to S/. 42.00 = US$1 on March 19, which represented a 21.4 percent depreciation, and announced that the exchange rate would be depre- ciated daily by S/. 0.04 per US$1, with effect from March 23. With effect from December 23, the Guinea-Bissau peso was devalued from PG 44 = SDR 1 to PG 88 = SDR 1, representing a devalua- tion of 50 percent against the SDR. Hungary depre- ciated the value of the forint on several occasions in 1983, representing depreciations of 1 percent (March), 3 percent (April), 1 percent (June), and 3 percent (July) against the basket of currencies to which it is pegged. On May 18, Jamaica established a special exchange rate of J$ 2.25 = US$1 for all transactions within the CARICOM countries except for those previously designated (primarily imports of basic foods for CARICOM countries) for payment 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table 3. Changes in Exchange Rates of Currencies Pegged to Single Currencies or Currency Composites, 1983 Country Bangladesh (taka) Bolivia (peso) Burundi (franc) Ecuador (sucre) Guinea-Bissau (peso) Hungary (forint) Jamaica (dollar) Kenya (shilling) Madagascar (franc) Malawi (kwacha) Nepal (rupee) Papua New Guinea (kina) Romania (leu) Rwanda (franc) Sierra Leone (leone) Tanzania (shilling)7 Venezuela (bolivar) Zaire (zai're) Zambia (kwacha) Date of Change Jan. 11 Nov. 21 Nov. 22 Mar. 19 Dec. 23 Mar. 1 Apr. 8 June 7 July 12 May 18 Nov. 24 July 18 Jan. 31 July 8 Oct. 3 Sept. 17 June 1 Mar. 8 Jan. 1 July 1 Sept. 6 Ju ly 1 June 6 Mar. 5 Sept. 12 Jan. 9 July 6 Peg Other composite U .S. dollar U .S. dollar3 U .S. dollar3 SDR3 Other composite Other composite Other composite Other composite U .S. dollar U .S. dollar3 SDR Other composite Other composite Other composite SDR U .S. dollar3 Other composite U .S. dollar U.S. dollar3 U.S dollar3 U .S. dollar6 Other composite U .S. dollar SDR SDR Other composite6 Domestic Currency Units per U .S. Dollar or per SDR1 Old rate New rate pei D( •centage Appreciation ( + )/ spreciation ( — ) (in Terms of U .S. Dollar, SDR, or Currency Composite)1 196.0 90.00 33.0 44.0 500.0 42.0 88.0 1.784 14.060000 2.254 3.12 14.417241 1.2122 14.30 1.3577 14.50 15. 05 16.55 92.84 ' 16.55 17.55 97.9 1.257 9.7432 4.38 0.15750 0.976311 1.210952 2.500 12.178752 6.0 0.03542 0.781049 1.212152 - 0.62 -60.8 -22.9 -21.4 -50.0 - 1.0 - 3.0 - 1.0 - 3.0 -20.9 - 2.5 - 5.7 - 2.0 - 9.5 -10.7 - 1.4 - 5.5 - 9.1 - 5.7 - 5.2 -49.7 -20.02 -28.3 -77.5 -20.0 l .O2 - 'The currency units and magnitude of devaluations are expressed in terms of the currency peg. 2The currency units and magnitude of devaluation are expressed in terms of the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency. 3Exchange rate classification at the time of the devaluation (subsequently changed). 4The official rate of J$l .78 = US$1 continued to apply primarily to imports of basic foods from CARICOM countries. The rate of J$2.2.5 = US$1 applies to all other transactions within the CARICOM multilateral clearing fac i l i ty. A third parallel market rate was set by the commercial banks. 5The commercial rate. 6Exchange rate classification on date of the devaluation. 7The noncommercial rate. 8This rate continues to apply to revenue of oil exports, payments for essential imports and for external public debt. at the official exchange rate of J$ 1.78 = US$1. The special rate of J$2.25 = US$1 represented a 20.9 percent depreciation of the exchange rate ap- plicable to those transactions previously carried out in the official market. With effect from Novem- ber 24, Jamaica unified the pre-existing official, CARICOM and parallel market rates into a single exchange rate which was initially set at J$3.125 = US$1. Kenya devalued the shilling by 2.5 percent against the SDR on July 18. Madagascar devalued the Malagasy franc on three occasions in 1983, representing depreciations of 5.7 percent (January), 14 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RATES 2.0 percent (July), and 9.5 percent (October) against the currency composite to which it is pegged. Malawi depreciated on September 17 the rate of the Malawi kwacha in terms of the SDR by 10.7 percent. On June 1, Nepal pegged the Nepal- ese rupee to a composite of several currencies and depreciated the Nepalese rupee by 1.4 percent against the U.S. dollar. Papua New Guinea de- valued its currency by 5.5 percent against a basket of currencies on March 8. Romania devalued the commercial exchange rate of the leu by 9.1 percent against the U.S. dollar on January 1, and by 5.7 percent against the U.S. dollar on July 1, when it adopted a composite currency peg. In addition, the noncommercial rate for the leu was devalued by 7.4 percent against the U .S. dollar on July 1. While adopting an SDR peg, effective September 6, Rwanda devalued its currency by 5.2 percent against the U.S. dollar. On July 1, Sierra Leone unified the official and commercial exchange rates at Le 2.5 = US$1, representing a 49.7 percent devaluation of the official rate. Tanzania devalued the shilling by 20 percent against the U.S. dollar on June 6. Venezuela introduced the following three markets effective March 5: (1) a market in which the previous exchange rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1 is used for revenue of oil exports, payments for essen- tial imports and for external public debt; (2) a mar- ket in which the exchange rate of Bs 6.0 = US$1 is used for some revenues from state enterprises, im- ports of raw materials, and intermediate goods; this represented a depreciation of 28.3 percent against the U.S. dollar; and (3) a market in which a managed floating exchange rate is used for tourism, private transfers, and capital flows. On Septem- ber 12, Zaire changed the official exchange rate from Z 1 = SDR 0.15750 to Z 1 = SDR 0.03542 representing a devaluation of 77.5 percent. Effec- tive January 9, Zambia depreciated the kwacha by 20 percent against the SDR. On July 6, the kwacha was depreciated by 1 percent against its interven- tion currency, the U .S. dollar. One member that maintained the exchange rate of its currency with limited flexibility in terms of another currency notified the Fund of a dcscrete adjustment of the rate in 1983. Effective April 22, Ghana introduced a multiple exchange regime through a system of surcharges and bonuses applied to the official rate ( # 2 . 75 = US$1) by banks and other authorized foreign exchange dealers resulting in two effective rates of <£ 23.375 = US$1 and <£ 29.975 = US$1 equivalent to 88.2 percent and 90.8 percent devaluations of the cedi against the U.S. dollar, respectively. On October 10, Ghana abolished the bonuses and surcharges and unified the exchange rate, setting it at # 30.0 = US$1, which represented a further depreciation against the U.S. dollar of 17.7 percent of the implicit average exchange rate of <£ 24.692 = US$1 that was in effect since April 22. Changes in exchange rates in 1983 of currencies subject to "More Flexible" arrangements are shown in Table 4. Several countries with "Managed Float- ing" of their currencies, announced discrete changes in the external value of their currencies. With effect from March 8, Australia devalued its currency by 10 percent against a trade-weighted basket of currencies. With effect from Novem- ber 14, Costa Rica unified the banking and free ex- change rates and set the banking rate initially at (£ 43.65 = US$1 (selling), representing a deprecia- tion of 4.4 percent for the banking rate. Greece an- nounced a devaluation of the Greek drachma by 15.5 percent against the U .S. dollar effective Janu- ary 9. During 1983, the Greek drachma depreciated by 28.5 percent against the U.S. dollar. Iceland announced a 9 percent devaluation of the Icelandic krona effective January 5, and a further 14.6 per- cent devaluation of the Icelandic krona on May 27. During 1983, the Icelandic krona depreciated by 42 percent against the U .S. dollar. Indonesia changed the value of the rupiah on March 30, from Rp 702.50 = US$1 to Rp 970.00 = US$1, repre- senting a devaluation of 27.6 percent against the U .S. dollar. On August 10, Israel increased the selling price, in shekels, of the U.S. dollar by 7.5 percent and by a further 23.5 percent on Octo- ber 11. During the year under review, the shekel depreciated by 68.8 percent against the U.S. dollar. Following the devaluation of the Australian dollar, New Zealand announced the devaluation of the New Zealand dollar by 6 percent effective March 8. In 1983, the New Zealand dollar depreciated by 10.7 percent against the U .S. dollar. Peru an- nounced that, effective August 8, the buying rate of the sol in the official market was changed from S/. 1,743 = US$1 to S/. 1,850 = US$1, repre- senting a 5.8 percent depreciation. During 1983, the Peruvian sol depreciated by 56.4 percent against the U .S. dollar. Philippines announced that, with effect from October 5, the peso was devalued from P 11.0015 = US$1 to P 14.00 = US$1, repre- senting a 21A percent devaluation against the U.S. dollar. During the year under review, the Philippine peso depreciated by 34.5 percent against the U.S. dollar. Western Samoa announced several changes in the exchange rate of the tala. With effect from February 7, the midpoint exchange rate for the tala 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE A R R A N G EM E N TS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Table 4. Changes in Exchange Rates of Currencies Subject to "More Flexible" Arrangements1 (December J 7, 1982-December 31, 1983) Currency U n i ts per U .S. Dollar2 (End of Period) Dec. 31, 1982 Dec. 31, 1983 Percentage Appreciation (+ )/Depreciation ( —) ( in Terms of U .S. Dollars per Currency Un i t) Argentina (peso) Brazil (cruzeiro) Chile (peso) Colombia (peso) Costa Rica (colon) Ecuador (sucre) Greece (drachma) Iceland (krona) India (rupee) Indonesia (rupiah) Israel (shekel) Korea (won) Lebanon (pound) Mexico (peso) Morocco (dirham) New Zealand (dollar) Nigeria (naira) Pakistan (rupee) Peru (sol) Philippines (peso) Portugal (escudo) Spain (peseta) Sri Lanka (rupee) Somalia (sh i l l ing) South Africa (rand) Turkey (lire) Uganda ( sh i l l ing) Uruguay (new peso) Western Samoa (tala) Yugoslavia (dinar) Zaire (zaire) 4.8545 252.67 73.43 70.29 40.25 33.15 70.57 16.625 9.634 692.5 33.65 748.8 3.81 96.48 6.26755 1.365 .6702 12.8478 989.67 9 .171 89.064 125.601 21 .32 15.207 1.074 186.75 104.3 33.750 1.237 62.487 5.74633 23.261 984.00 87.53 88.77 43.65 54.64 98.67 28.67 10.493 994.0 107.77 795.5 5.49 143.8 8.0610 1.528 .7486 13.50 2,272.20 14.002 131.646 156.7 25.00 17.5556 1 .221 282.8 240.00 43.25 1 .6203 125.673 30.118 -79.1 -74.3 -16.1 -20.8 -7.8 -39.3 -28.5 -42.0 -8.2 -30.3 -68.8 -5.9 -30.6 -32.9 -22.3 -10.7 -10.5 -4.9 -56.4 -34.5 -32.4 -19.8 -14.7 -13.4 -12.0 -34.0 -56.5 -22.0 -23.6 -50.3 -80.9 'The informa t ion presented in th is table relates to those members not inc luded in Table 3 whose arrangements are classified in the category "More Flexible" as of December 31, 1983. Exchange rates shown are m idpo in ts of buy ing and se l l ing rates. 2For those countries wh ich m a in t a in m u l t i p le rates, the rate shown is e i ther that quoted by the authorities as the official rate or that used most widely in the coun t ry 's in t e rn a t ion al t ransac t ions. in terms of the New Zealand dollar was changed from WS$0.9062 = $NZ 1 to WS$ 1.0069 = $NZ 1, representing a 10 percent depreciation of the tala. During the second quarter of 1983, the midpoint exchange rate of the tala against the New Zealand dollar was changed on several occasions representing a 5 percent depreciation of the tala against the New Zealand dollar during the second quarter. During 1983, the tala depreciated overall by 23.6 percent against the U.S. dollar. Countries that follow an explicit set of indicators in managing their exchange rates flexibly4 effected the following cumulative rates of depreciation in 4Changes in exchange rates in 1983 of currencies subject to "More Flexible" arrangements are shown in Table 4. 16 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES 1983 against their intervention currency, the U.S dollar: Brazil 74.3 percent; Chile 16.1 percent; Co- lombia 20.8 percent; Portugal 32.4 percent; and Somalia 13.4 percent. These cumulative deprecia- tions were achieved in part by discrete devalua- tions. Brazil devalued the cruzeiro 12 times against the U.S. dollar during the first quarter of 1983, including a substantial devaluation of 23.1 percent in terms of cruzeiros per U.S. dollar on Febru- ary 21. Chile announced that with effect from March 23, the reference rate of the Chilean peso would be adjusted on the basis of domestic inflation only. Previously, from September 29, 1982, the exchange rate of the peso had been adjusted daily by the difference between the average rate of change of the domestic consumer price index in the preceding month and an estimate of the world infla- tion rate. Since December 17, however, foreign inflation, estimated at not more than 0.5 percent a month, has been taken again into account. Follow- ing the realignment of the currencies participating in the EMS, on March 25, Portugal announced a 2 percent adjustment in the effective exchange rate of the escudo and a monthly increase in its crawling peg depreciation, from 0.75 percent to 1 percent. Further, on June 22, Portugal announced a devalua- tion of the escudo in effective terms of 12 percent. On October 23, Somalia changed the middle rate of the Somali shilling from So. Sh. 15.7567 = US$1 to So. Sh. 17.5556 = US$1, representing a 10.2 percent devaluation. Modifications were made by countries to the is- suance of advance announcements of exchange rates, affecting the mode and pace of change of the exchange rates of their currencies. Following the devaluation of the sucre in the official market on March 19, Ecuador announced that the exchange rate of the sucre would be depreciated by S/. 0.04 per US$1 each business day, with effect from March 23; the rate of depreciation of the sucre in the official market was accelerated after June 19, 1983 to S/. 0.05 per US$1 each calendar day. Subsequent to the devaluation of the official ex- change rate of the sol on August 8, Peru announced that with effect from September 1, monthly rates of depreciation of the sol in terms of the U.S. dollar in the official market would be preannounced for three months in advance. In accordance with that policy, monthly rates of depreciation of the sol in terms of the U.S. dollar of 3.9, 3.8, and 3.6 percent were announced for the three months through November 1983. The December depreciation rate (3.5 percent) was announced in September, the January 1984 rate (4.4 percent) in October, and that for February 1984 (4.7 percent) in November. In late December the Peruvian authorities announced that no further preannouncements would be made for the period after February 29, 1984. Following the depreciation of the escudo on March 25, Portugal announced an increase in its monthly crawling peg depreciation from 0.75 percent to 1.0 percent. During the period under review, several ex- change arrangement changes other than those al- ready noted were introduced, including an adjust- ment of margins around a peg, the introduction of a new currency, and a change of intervention cur- rency. On May 31, Argentina announced that, fol- lowing bank and foreign exchange holidays on May 31 and June 1, a new monetary unit would be in effect. The name of the new unit would be the peso argentine ($a), with a value equal to 10,000 of the former peso. Effective January 11, Bangladesh changed its intervention currency from the pound sterling to the U.S. dollar. Following the deprecia- tion of its currency on July 18, Kenya announced that it was availing itself of margins of ± 2.25 percent around the Kenya shilling-SDR peg. III. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices Imports and Import Payments On the whole, the trend in recent years toward increased restrictiveness as regards trade policies continued in 1983, albeit at a more moderate pace than in 1982. With few exceptions the modest re- covery of world production and trade last year was not accompanied by a reversal of the rising tide of protectionist measures to contain the growth of im- ports. The persistence of high unemployment in industrial countries and of severe external payments difficulties in developing countries were major rea- sons for further advances of trade protectionism. As in 1982, members carried out these policies primar- ily by resorting to quantitative restrictions; actions in 1983 represented both the intensification and extension of existing measures and the imposition of new ones, although there were fewer new actions than in 1982. Besides undertaking actions to restrict mutual trade flows, industrial countries raised new 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EX CHANGE A R R A N G EM E N TS AND E X C H A N GE RESTR ICT IONS barriers against imports from new ly indus tr ia l- ized countries; on the other hand, some concessions were granted to imports from countries classified as "least developed." In a number of cases agreements were reached on a commodity-specific or bilateral basis to avoid the mu l t i la te ral imposition of con- trols. The ma in focus of restrictions continued to be agriculture, textiles, automobiles, and steel, but for the first time in recent years pressures emerged to extend restrictions to high technology products. Protectionist measures had been used ma in ly to ease the ad jus tmen ts necessitated by declining in- dustries, but protectionist argumen ts in the elec- tronics and high technology sectors were based on security and in fant indus t ry considerations. The level of protectionism by industrial countries in the agr icu l tural sector remained h igh in 1983. Import quotas and tar iff restricted imports, wh i le variable import levies and export subsidies were used to enable effective operations of domestic farm support programs. Trade was regulated both under international agreements covering sugar, dairy products, grains, and meat, and through the widespread use of bilateral trade agreements. The EC Council began to reassess more actively the implications of the Common Agr icu l tural Policy (CAP) with a view to bringing excess ou tput under control and, for certain products, narrowing the gap between internal farm prices and world market prices, thus moderating the budgetary costs of the CAP and reducing the risks of trade conflicts w i th third countries. Increases in guaranteed common agricultural prices approved in May 1983 averaged less than half of those granted in the previous year. There was some improvement in world prices of primary commodity exports in 1983 wh ich, to- gether w i th ad jus tment programs adopted in re- sponse to very d i f f i cu lt balance of paymen ts prob- lems, resulted in an improvement in the external position of some countries. Moves toward more flexible and realistic exchange rates became more common, but comprehensive restrictions intro- duced on an emergency basis, and aimed at pre- venting payments arrears, remained in some coun- tries. Several developing countries increased import controls with a view to halting the loss of foreign exchange or to generate a needed trade surp lus, but a number of them made efforts to improve import licensing procedures, by replacing import quotas with tariffs and reducing reliance on export sub- sidies. The oil exporting developing countries con- tinued to face a d i f f icu lt situation with a fu r ther weakening of international oil prices, and some of these countries intensified their import restrictions. 18 The Contracting Parties to the GATT held their th i r ty -n in th session in November 1983 to review progress on the work program adopted at the 1982 ministerial meeting. Studies are under way on trade in agriculture, tropical products, and textiles and clothing. New procedures were set up to review the international trading system, and particularly im- plementation of Part IV of the GATT providing for favorable trade treatment for developing countries. Work has begun on the harmonization of tariff coding systems. Little progress was made, how- ever, on the issue of safeguards, despite intensive efforts. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) was extended for another year with minor improve- ments by most industrial countries, although for some developing countries the scope of the GSP was reduced. The EC proposed an acceleration of the timetable for tariff cuts agreed during the Tokyo Round, provided other OECD countries did like- wise, and conditional on satisfactory progress on economic recovery. At the thirty-ninth session of the GATT, Japan and the Un i ted States proposed a new round of multilateral trade negotiations, but this was not widely supported, with other members calling for fu ll implementation of existing agree- ments and completion of the work program for- mulated at the November 1982 GATT ministerial meeting. Quantitative Import Controls Industrial countries continued in 1983 to resort heavily to quan t i ta t ive import controls and special agreements. Following the extension of the Mul- tifiber Arrangement (MFA) from 1982 to 1986, and the negotiation of many four-year bilateral agree- ments in 1982, fur ther agreements were concluded in 1983. The EC concluded bilateral agreements w i th all major textile producers signatory to the agreement to control the growth of imports of wool, cotton, and synthetic textiles and to protect against any sudden surges. During 1983, however, quan- titative restrictions were removed by the EC from a number of textile products originating in Japan and Hong Kong. Smaller GSP concessions by the EC were given to products covered by the MFA. Canada negotiated bilateral agreements with 17 de- veloping countries and certain non-MFA signa- tories under the extended MFA. Consultations were held in 1983 with four major suppliers to lower levels of clothing imports for selected products from which competition was considered to have ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES become particularly serious. A new five-year bilat- eral agreement was signed with Hong Kong to limit growing imports of textiles from Hong Kong to growth rates of 0.5 percent to 15 percent a year, depending on the item involved. When Canada's imports of acrylic yarn and blouses and skirts from Malaysia rose above agreed threshold levels they were converted in June into specific restraint levels, also for the period 1983-86. In Ju ly, the Govern- ment announced its intention to use the orderly marketing provisions in Canada's bilateral arrange- ments with the People's Republic of China, Hong Kong, Korea, and Taiwan* to prevent disruptive concentration of clothing imports during any one calendar quarter of the year and to seek to eliminate the provisions for flexibility in these arrangements. In August, an agreement was reached for 1983 on the level of imports of tailored shirts from In- donesia. Agreement was also reached on the estab- lishment of an export licensing arrangement for all Indonesian clothing exports to Canada. In Septem- ber, quantitative limits were announced on Cana- dian imports of hosiery from Singapore for the period 1984-86. The United States renegotiated agreements due to expire with three major suppliers for the six-year period from 1982; under the new agreements exports would be held close to 1982 levels. Agreements due to expire with another seven countries were renegotiated on terms similar to the existing agreements. In January 1983, the United States announced countervailing duties on textiles imported from Peru and unilaterally im- posed quotas at the 1982 level on textiles and cloth- ing from the People's Republic of China. This fol- lowed failure to reach bilateral agreement on regu- lating such imports to replace the agreement that expired on December 31, 1982. However, in August, a bilateral agreement was signed regarding imports from the People's Republic of China, covering imports of 33 categories (up from 14 in the previous agreement) and providing for increases of 2 to 3 percent a year through 1987. The United States also renewed an agreement with Maldives in September 1983, raising quotas on imports of wool sweaters over a three-year period. In December, the U.S. administration announced a new textile policy which increased substantially the scope for surveil- lance of, and restrictions on, imports of textiles and apparel; whenever imports of a product grew by more than 30 percent in a year, grew to the equiva- lent of 20 percent of U.S. production of that prod- uct, or, in the case of the major foreign suppliers, tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 52. reached 65 percent of an agreed quota, the United States would automatically begin negotiations with the exporting country. Protectionist pressures intensified in 1983 with respect to international trade in steel and steel prod- ucts, particularly with respect to exports from newly industrialized countries such as Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, and the Republic of Korea. Con- trols on EC steel production and prices, due to expire on June 30, were extended to December 31, 1983, and later to December 1985. The EC again extended its import quota system. The bilateral agreements limiting exports of steel products to the EC were renewed by 14 countries for 1983 for smaller quantities than in 1982. Commencing in February, major steel companies in the United States sought quotas on specialty steels, and the U.S. International Trade Commission made a deter- mination of serious injury to domestic industries by imports. In July, duty increases and global quotas were imposed on imports of stainless steel sheet, strip, plate, rod, and bars and alloy tool steel, under the provisions of Article XIX of the GATT. Import quotas on these items were to reduce imports below 1982 levels and then to increase them by 3 percent a year for four years. At the same time tariffs on these items were doubled, with provisions for gradual reductions over the same period. The EC sought formal compensation with respect to the U .S. re- strictions. In September, the United States reached understandings, under GATT Article XIII in some instances, with Argentina, Austria, Canada, Japan, Poland, Spain, and Sweden regarding restraints ap- plicable to imports of specialty steel from those countries. Unfair trade practice suits were filed in the United States against Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico with respect to carbon steel imports, and plans for filing against Romania, Spain, and South Africa were announced. In one instance, a ceiling reducing imports of basic carbon steel below the current level was sought. In October 1983, the EC indicated dissatisfaction with the U .S. offer of com- pensation with respect to specialty steels. After failing to reach a satisfactory compensation agree- ment with the United States, the EC imposed re- taliatory restrictions on U.S. sales of chemical and sporting goods in Europe, effective March 1, 1984. These restrictions will last for the duration of the specialty steel restriction by the United States (about four years). Restrictions on international trade in automobiles continued to be applied in 1983. In 1983, the final year of a three-year voluntary export restraint period, Japan undertook in February to continue to 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS restrain shipments of passenger cars to the United States to the same level as in the two previous years, that is, 1.68 million units. Later in the year, the Japanese authorities decided to continue to re- strain exports of passenger cars to the United States for a fourth year; these exports in the year begin- ning April 1, 1984 are not to exceed 1.85 million units. Following an agreement in August 1982 that limited passenger car exports to Canada to about 120,00 units during the period April 1 to Decem- ber 31, 1982, the Japanese Government stated that such exports to Canada during the period January 1, 1983 to March 31, 1984 would amount to 202,000 units compared with 200,000 units during the pre- vious 15 months. Japan also agreed to take mea- sures to moderate exports of vans, fork-lift trucks, and motorcycles to the EC. Restrictions on imports of high-technology and electronic products were among those that were intensified in 1983 by voluntary export restraints, although in March the United States reached an agreement with Japan aimed at ensuring mutual access to trade and investment opportunities in high-technology industries. In February 1983, Ja- pan agreed to limit videotape recorder exports to the EC to 4.55 million units during 1983. This ceiling represented a modest rise for Japanese sales in the EC over 1982, when they accounted for 80 percent of a total market estimated at about 4.7 million units. For 1984, the ceiling was fixed at 5.05 mil- lion units. In addition, a floor price system was introduced to align prices of Japanese imports of these goods into the EC with domestic ex-factory prices in the EC. Furthermore, a ceiling of 900,000 units was set for exports of color television tubes along with a moderation in the pace of shipment of eight other goods (color television sets, audio equipment, machine tools, automobiles, light commercial vehicles, forklifts, motorcycles, and quartz watches). Apart from steel (restricted since 1976) this was the first occasion on which Japan had given the EC a precise undertaking to hold down exports. Subsequently, the regulation by France, introduced in October 1982, requiring that all imported video units be sent to Poitiers, in cen- tral France, for customs clearance was lifted in Apr- il 1983. France also withdrew its dumping com- plaint against imports of videotape recorders from Japan. Japan agreed to continue to restrain exports of ten sensitive manufactured consumer products in 1984. Also in 1983, the EC notified Japan of its intention to raise tariffs on digital audio disc players in February 1983 before the product was imported into Europe. In July, Japan proposed to the GATT 20 that the Contracting Parties discuss and reach a consensus on how to deal with possible preventive tariffs in the future. In October, the EC doubled the Community's tariff on compact disc players, of which Japan is the main producer. A range of other measures to restrict imports was introduced by industrial countries. The EC an- nounced quotas for imports of footwear from Taiwan1^ in February. The EC authorized France and the United Kingdom to restrict for the period January 1983 to December 1985 imports of table- ware and stoneware from third countries. The EC also introduced emergency measures providing for quotas until December 31, 1983 on imports of tim- ber into France. Certain member states of the EC were also authorized not to give Community treat- ment to products from outside the EC circulating in other EC member states. These regulations applied to motorcycles, television sets, tuners, and out- board motors from Japan circulating in Italy, win- dow glass from Hungary in the Benelux countries, quartz watches from Hong Kong in France, and certain imports of bananas into Italy. The EC notified the GATT in July 1983 of its intention to establish temporary measures against imports of hybrid maize. A voluntary export restraint agree- ment will regulate exports of cassava by Thailand, Brazil, and Indonesia to the EC through 1985/86. From 1982 to 1984 a temporary joint discipline agreement will regulate two-way cheese trade be- tween the EC, on the one hand, and Finland and Austria, on the other; a similar arrangement was concluded between the EC and Norway for the the period 1983-85. The EC imposed in December 1982 import quotas for 1983 on mushrooms, while exports of sheep meat and goat meat from most suppliers to the EC were restricted by voluntary export restraint from 1980, through March 31, 1984. France imposed an import quota for 1983 on quartz watches from Hong Kong. In April, the United States imposed duty increases and tariff rate quotas for five years on imports of certain heavy- weight motorcycles as a safeguard action under Article XIX of GATT. The additional duties were to be reduced gradually and the quotas increased over the five-year period. Separate quotas were established for imports of these goods from the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, and all other countries. In June, quotas were established to ban imports of certain sugars and syrups into the United States. In August and September, the United States concluded arrangements with Australia, Canada, tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 52. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES and New Zealand under which the countries agreed to limit their exports of meat to the United States effective through the end of 1983. In December, the United States revoked specified licensing require- ments for imports of petroleum and petroleum products. The exception to the protectionist thrust of trade policy among the industrial countries in 1983 was again Japan, which took further steps to open its market and to promote imports. Following the measures already taken in January and May 1982, a third package of measures was announced in Jan- uary 1983. This package included some relaxation of import quotas on a wide range of agricultural goods, the expansion of the number of outlets han- dling tobacco products, and modifications of non- tariff barriers in the form of certain import inspec- tion procedures and standards. For example, the sale of foreign goods could be registered directly, rather than through importing agents, and official approval of an import sample could be extended to all goods of the same type. Other measures in- cluded the promotion of procurements of foreign products by the Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Public Corporation and the establishment of an ad- visory council to strengthen the functions of the office of Trade Ombudsman. In April 1983, the EC requested the establishment of a working party under the provisions of GATT Article XXIII:2 to examine the concern of the EC that the benefits of successive GATT negotiations with Japan had not been realized. On October 21, 1983 Japan an- nounced further measures aimed at easing import controls. These included an increase in the overall quotas for industrial products imported under the GSP by around 50 percent in fiscal year 1984, modification of lending facilities of the Export- Import Bank of Japan to enable it to finance imports of manufactured goods with low interest loans, enhancement of the import promotion function of the Japan External Trade Organization, promotion of the procurement of imported goods by the gov- ernment and other public sector entities, im- provement of the distribution system for imported goods, and measures to improve standards and cer- tification systems. With the continued weakness of international oil prices, a number of oil exporting countries in- troduced or intensified import restrictions. Algeria published in September a list of goods produced locally whose importation was banned or restricted. Indonesia limited imports of several products to specified agencies. In June, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya added a number of items to the list of prohibited consumer goods, including automobiles, televisions, air conditioners, bicycles, videocas- settes, and automobile radios. In the course of the year Nigeria expanded the list of products subject to import licensing to include a wide range of food products, consumer goods, and building materials; the list of prohibited imports was also increased by the inclusion of passenger cars in excess of a specified size or value. In early 1984 all imports to Nigeria became subject to specific import licensing. In March and April, in conjunction with the estab- lishment of a three-tier exchange system, Vene- zuela established three customs lists: a list of "es- sential goods" which could be imported at the preferential rate, a list of items that could be im- ported only by the government, and a smaller list of items subject to import quotas and financeable only at the most depreciated exchange rate. Among the non-oil developing countries, some made further progress during 1983 in reducing im- port restrictions and simplifying import regimes. On balance these actions appear to have compen- sated the negative effect of new restrictive measures in the other countries of this group. Barbados elimi- nated import quotas on passenger cars and small commercial vehicles in January. At the same time importers in Bolivia were permitted to import un- prohibited items with their own foreign exchange. Ecuador and El Salvador exempted a number of items from import bans. In November Grenada re- duced the list of commodities subject to individual licensing by about one third. Hungary granted large and frequent importers an exemption from the re- quirement for approval of licenses, except for capital goods imports. India adopted wide-ranging measures that on balance increased access to im- ports and reduced the level of protection afforded to domestic industry. In April 1983, a large number of capital goods items, raw materials, and components were shifted to more liberal licensing arrangements and the value limit below which automatic licenses issued during the previous year could be used on a repeat basis was raised. In May 1983, changes were made in India's system of special licenses issued against exports of manufactured goods whereby value limits applicable to imports of capital goods and technology against Import Replenishment Scheme (REP) licenses were increased; in addition, the effective value of automatic and REP licenses for the import of goods carried by Indian vessels was increased, as freight and insurance costs for these imports were excluded from the costs charged against the value of the license. Also in May, manufacturers exporting at least 50 percent of their 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS production were permitted to use freely their auto- matically available supplementary licenses to im- port restricted raw materials and components, and a simplified clearance procedure was introduced for automatic authorization of imports of capital goods and technology that would reduce production costs by at least 10 percent. The April and May measures were estimated to increase access to imports (ex- cluding petroleum, fertilizers, edible oils, and foodgrains) by 12.5 percent with respect to 1982/83 import values. Also in 1983 a number of items were moved from more restricted to less restricted categories of import licenses. Import duties for cer- tain items of textile machinery were sharply re- duced. Some measures introduced by India during the year reduced access to imports, and basic and auxiliary customs duties were raised for a number of products. In June, Kenya revised its import licensing system to restore a subschedule of freely importable items, and a timetable was established for further import liberalization by widening the coverage of this subschedule. In July, the Republic of Korea removed import restrictions on a number of items but raised tariffs on a smaller group of import items; from January 1, 1984, further items would be exempted from import restrictions and import duties. Mauritius lifted import restrictions on some goods in December. Morocco's import program for 1983 involved shifts of a number of imports from a licensing requirement to freely im- portable status. In March, all imports were made temporarily subject to licensing, but groups of items were subsequently transferred back to a free list equivalent to about one third of the total c.i.f. value of annual imports. In July, Pakistan made a basic change in its import system when a "negative" list of restricted imports replaced the previous "pos- itive" list of permitted imports; a number of prod- ucts were added to the importable list, and licensing restrictions were lifted on several items previously subject to quantitative restrictions. The ceiling for imports of capital goods outside the restricted list of industries was doubled. In September, further items were removed from the negative import list, and an exemption from minimum margin requirements for the opening of letters of credit for imports of indus- trial raw materials was extended to all importers. In the course of 1983, Panama replaced quotas by import tariffs for a number of imports, including shoes and certain textile products. Turkey early in the year eliminated special licensing requirements for a number of commodities. In September, Zaire allowed commercial banks to allocate freely 75 percent of their earnings from exports and invisibles 22 for payments for imports of goods and associated expenses. Approval of the Bank of Zaire was re- quired, however, for imports transported by an air carrier other than Air Zaire, for imports in the form of foreign grants to private residents, for imports in the form of foreign contributions to capital, except those under the Investment Code, and for imports financed abroad for more than one year other than those contracted or guaranteed by the Government. Quantitative import restrictions were introduced or intensified, and import regimes were tightened, in a number of non-oil developing countries during 1983, but there were fewer such actions than in the previous year. In October, Argentina temporarily suspended acceptance of applications for import licenses, except for goods not produced in Argen- tina or for which payment in foreign exchange was not required; after a short time a system of foreign exchange allocations was introduced by which the importer could receive an allocation for a certain percentage of the value of imports made in the previous year. Certain imports, however, were li- censed automatically, including fuel, replacement parts of capital equipment, and goods for which foreign exchange was not required. In May, Brazil made imports of specified minerals, including iron and steel alloys, copper, nickel, aluminum, lead, and zinc subject to prior import control. Chad sus- pended licenses for the importation of sugar and selected brands of cigarettes in April and tightened controls on the importation of textiles in Septem- ber. During the year, Colombia shifted a large num- ber of items from being freely importable to requir- ing a license. Greece in February introduced quanti- tative restrictions on imports of a number of indus- trial products. Guinea-Bissau introduced in Decem- ber a system for allocating imports to traders on the basis of their exports. Israel in March added certain fruits and vegetables and in May nonalcoholic bev- erages to the list of imports subject to licensing. Democratic Kampuchea promulgated in January a law specifying authorized imports and conditions for obtaining import licenses. The Netherlands Antilles imposed import quotas in August on cer- tain items for which locally produced substitutes were available. The Philippines introduced in Au- gust and September a requirement of prior authori- zation for imports of a number of consumer and intermediate items amounting to about 4 percent of total imports in 1983, suspended indefinitely in November application for importation of fresh fruit, electronic components, and alcoholic liquors and wines, and introduced in November a priority sys- tem for import payments that would provide for the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES allocation of foreign exchange for oil imports, in- puts to export products, raw materials for vital domestic industries, and food grains. In addition, access to imports was affected by regulations issued in March and September limiting the net foreign exchange holdings of commercial banks; amounts in excess of the established limits had to be sold to the Central Bank. Furthermore, in June and Octo- ber quotas on the amount of foreign exchange that nonbank authorized foreign exchange dealers should sell to the Central Bank were established. Senegal introduced new regulations for the importa- tion of videocassettes and equipment. Sudan banned in January the importation of a number of consumer goods, including passenger cars, house- hold electrical appliances, textiles, and certain foods and beverages. Seychelles introduced import licensing requirements in March for motor vehicles, and increased customs duties on consumer goods in May. Thailand limited imports of palm oil, diesel engines, skimmed milk, onions, and fork-lift trucks in the course of the year, and in September applied licensing requirements to certain chemical products and television cabinets. Trinidad and Tobago in March made most imports from CARICOM countries subject to specific licenses, and in October in- troduced a foreign exchange budget for total im- ports that gave priority to capital goods, raw mate- rials, other industrial inputs and essential food and drugs. Importers were required to obtain exchange approval from the Central Bank before an import license could be activated. In July, Uganda reduced the maximum period for importation of goods from six months to four months, or two months for goods transported by air. Among major measures introduced in the first quarter of 1984, the People's Republic of China became a signatory to the MFA in January. In February Portugal announced that temporary import controls ranging from restrictions to prohibitions could be imposed for a six-month period in sectors where Portuguese industries could be seriously damaged by imports. The regulation was expected to affect especially consumer durables and auto- mobile parts, but it could also be used to protect special geographic regions such as areas of indus- trial growth. On the other hand, quantitative import restrictions were considerably reduced in Turkey. From the beginning of 1984, all goods could be imported freely into Turkey, except for those ex- plicitly prohibited or subject to specific licensing. In contrast with the previous regime under which the importation of all but a limited number of goods was either prohibited or subject to specific license, the 1984 import regime contains a list of prohibited imports and a list of restricted imports; all other goods are freely importable. Also, administrative procedures to obtain an import license for restricted imports have been simplified. Venezuela an- nounced that quantitative import quotas would be established for 1984, with such quotas not exceed- ing 1982 import levels in real terms. Import Surcharges and Import Taxation In 1983 there were two instances of new across- the-board import surcharges. The Philippines in- troduced a 3 percent levy in January, which was subsequently raised to 5 percent in November. In June the Yemen Arab Republic imposed a 1 percent tax for reconstruction relating to earthquakes. Other intensifications involved specific products or in- creases in general taxes. Senegal raised the general import tax on nonexempt items from 15 percent to 20 percent in May. Sudan increased the surcharge applicable to most imports from 10 percent to 13 percent in August. Zimbabwe increased its cus- toms surtax on imports in August from 15 percent to 20 percent on most imports. Liberalizing mea- sures were taken in a similar number of instances. Iceland in February reduced special excise taxes on domestic and imported goods from 32 percent to 24 percent and from 40 percent to 30 percent, and removed the special temporary levy on biscuits, confectionery, and chocolates. In March, Peru changed its temporary import surcharge from 15 percent of the duty payable to 10 percent of the c.i.f. value of the import, and extended the ar- rangement to December 31, 1983. South Africa reduced and then abolished its import surcharge. Thailand lifted the 0.5 percent surcharge on all imports from January. With respect to import taxation, a wide range of measures were introduced. In January, the EC and EFTA removed the last remaining barriers to mutual trade in industrial products. Also in Jan- uary, Australia and New Zealand entered into an agreement providing for elimination of tariffs of 5 percent or less, and a phased reduction of virtu- ally all other tariffs. In November the United States designated 11 Caribbean Basin countries as bene- ficiaries of trade-liberalizing measures, including duty-free treatment for a period of almost 12 years; a further 9 countries were added to that list in early 1984. Most other measures in the area of import taxa- tion concerned further concessions under the GSP 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS in tariffs applied to imports from developing coun- tries. These extensions included deeper tariff cuts, expansion of product coverage and additions to the beneficiary lists of least developed countries. In January, Canada reduced tariff rates in line with the schedule agreed to in the context of the Tokyo Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations (MTN) and made proportionate reductions in many tariff rates under the GSP. Thirty-one countries were designated as "least developed" and thereby were eligible to receive duty-free treatment. Tariff reduc- tions on a number of products were implemented in February as compensation to the EC for the imposi- tion of quotas on leather footwear. Also in Febru- ary, further tariff concessions on linerboard and solid bleached boxboard were implemented at the conclusion of MTN arrangements between Canada and the United States. In April, reductions were made in GSP tariff rates for developing countries. Tariffs were reduced on a number of goods, includ- ing firebrick, electronic carillons, crawler machines and engines, and mixing consoles and tape record- ers for sound recording studios, but increased on certain machinery parts. In June, however, Canada implemented, on a provisional basis, the customs and tariff aspects of the new offshore policies an- nounced by the Government in January, which con- sisted of extending the customs and excise regime beyond the 12-mile territorial limit to all goods used in connection with resource-related activities on the Canadian continental shelf. In December, Canada introduced new legislation to enable the Cabinet to cancel privileges and to impose quantitative restric- tions or extra tariffs on goods from countries not adhering to trade agreements with Canada. A new agency was established to investigate antidumping and countervailing duty complaints on the basis of retardation of, rather than injury to, Canadian in- dustry. The EC continued its GSP scheme in 1983. There were no changes in arrangements for steel products or industrial products. Some countries re- ceived additional tariff quotas or higher ceilings, and in some cases ceilings were made more flex- ible. For a number of products tariff quotas were increased by 5 percent to 10 percent, but for more sensitive sectors such as steel, footwear, leather, and chemical products there were no increases in quotas. Ceilings were raised from 5 percent to 15 percent, the latter figure applying to all nonsensi- tive products. Under the MFA there was no in- crease in the GSP for most sensitive products; others were eligible for increases of 2.5 percent to 5.0 percent. All bilateral trading partners were as- signed specific ceilings. In five instances (the Peo- 24 ple's Republic of China, Macao, Romania, Hong Kong, and the Republic of Korea) there were virtu- ally no increases made in offers for MFA products. For trading partners with no specific ceilings, there were volume increases of 5 percent or more. GSP preferences relating to textiles were to be available only to countries with bilateral agreements with the EC. For non-MFA products a new system of indi- vidual ceilings replaced the former global ceilings, with increases in most cases of 5 percent. For ag- ricultural imports from least developed countries, the GSP was extended to a number of additional tariff categories. For all beneficiaries of the GSP, preferential margins on some products were im- proved, some new products were added, and the distribution of quotas for products subject to quota was revised. The beneficiaries of the GSP com- prised the same group of 125 countries as in 1982. Sierra Leone and Togo were added to the list of least developed countries. Special arrangements were entered into with the People's Republic of China and with Romania, dealing with a broader range of products than in 1982. During the year the EC imposed antidumping duties on certain chem- ical products from various countries and on imports of specified sheet iron or sheet steel originating in Brazil. Japan introduced some tariff reductions under the GSP and increased the number of coun- tries designated as least developed from 30 to 34. In January, Spain reduced import duties on a number of chemical products from a range of 13 percent to 35 percent to a range of 0 percent to 1 percent, and tariff quotas at reduced rates were introduced for imports of automobiles from EC countries. Switzer- land in January amended its regulation establishing preferential customs duties in favor of developing countries in order to give effect to the fourth annual reduction of MFN rates under the Tokyo Round. Five countries (Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, and Togo) were added to the list of least developed countries eligi- ble for special treatment in the context of the Swiss scheme of tariff preferences. The United States introduced new proposals regarding the extension of its GSP for a ten-year period from 1985. Whereas the existing system automatically excludes a beneficiary country from GSP eligibility for a product when imports of that product under the GSP exceed either 50 percent of total U .S. imports of that product or a specified absolute value (ad- justed annually), the revised GSP would lower the limit to 25 percent of the value of U .S. imports or to US$25 million, for products from countries found to be highly competitive. A key factor in determin- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES ing such limits would be the extent to which the beneficiary country had assured the United States of reasonable and equitable access to its own markets. The limits could be waived for products from least developed countries. It was estimated that about 30 of the poorest countries would gain from the new proposals, but that six newly industrialized coun- tries could forfeit much of their market share unless they lowered barriers to U .S. goods. The GSP pro- gram gives about 140 countries and territories duty- free access to the U.S. market; in 1982 imports under the GSP totaled $8.4 billion or about 3 per- cent of total U.S. imports. In June, the administra- tion requested Congress to extend for a further 12 months a waiver of the provision in the Trade Act specifying that most-favored-nation status not be given to countries with nonmarket economies that denied the right to free emigration. Japan took further measures in the tariff field during 1983 in its effort to further open its market to foreign imports. Measures announced included the reduction or elimination of tariffs on items of con- cern to trading partners, such as tobacco products, chocolates, and biscuits, as well as additional ag- ricultural products and manufactured goods. Re- ductions or abolitions of tariffs that were part of the May 1982 and January 1983 liberalization packages were implemented on April 1, 1983. The products covered by the tariff cuts accounted for 11 percent of Japan's imports of dutiable goods (excluding oil) in fiscal year 1981. As a result, the average tariff rate for these items was reduced from 7.7 percent in 1982 to 4.5 percent in 1983. The tariff reduction on tobacco was from 35 percent to about 20 percent and duties on chocolates and biscuits were also lowered to 20 or 24 percent. In October, 1983 Japan announced further measures aimed at pro- moting imports. These included a reduction of tariffs on certain items, from fiscal year 1984, and further advancement, starting from fiscal 1984, of the scheduled reduction of tariffs on industrial prod- ucts agreed on at the Tokyo Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations. A few non-oil developing countries lowered im- port tariffs on a selective basis in 1983, but, on balance, tariff protection was increased. Reductions in tariff barriers were reported for three countries only, although in several others some easing par- tially offset the more general upward trend in pro- tectionism. Brazil made changes in the applicability of its financial transactions tax. Imports of un- worked coal and sodium carbonate were exempted from this tax in March, and the tax rate was lowered from 25 percent to 15 percent for a list of specified imports. In April lists of items subject to reduced rates of 15 percent, 12 percent, and 0 percent were published. In May the tax on imports of lead was reduced from 25 percent to 15 percent, and in December new rates of tax on crude oil imports were announced for 1984. In March Brazil intro- duced a scheme permitting trading companies to procure and sell raw materials and intermediate goods free of domestic taxes for transformation into exports within a specified period. In April and May temporary tariff suspensions were announced for imports of wheat, beef, leather and hides imported by processing industries for their own use, and for imports of alumina by aluminum producers. In May, however, Brazil ceased to grant multilateral tariff concessions to Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Paraguay, and Uruguay. In January, Israel reduced customs duties on imports from the EC by 10 per- cent. Mexico eliminated duties on a number of import items in March. In March also, Western Samoa reduced import duty rates on a number of food products by amounts ranging from 1 percent to 8 percent. Tariff protection was increased in a number of non-oil developing countries in 1983. In March Chile increased the uniform tariff rate applicable to most imports from 10 to 20 percent. Colombia increased duties on most tariff items by 10 percent in June, but in July tariffs on a number of textile products and other items, used as inputs by specified domestic producers, were reduced. In March, Ecuador imposed a monetary stabilization surcharge on the c.i.f. value of certain imports. In November, Fiji raised import duties on a wide range of products; however, a few items, mainly luxury goods such as electronic equipment, were added to the duty-free list. Grenada raised the stamp duty on imports from 17.5 percent to 20 per- cent in January, and the international airport duty on dutiable imports from 2 percent to 5 percent of the c.i.f. value in June. During the year, the Re- public of Korea increased the number of com- modities subject to emergency tariffs and reduced tariff rates on a larger group of items, although customs duties were raised on some products in December. The Netherlands Antilles increased im- port duties in November from 22 percent to 40 percent on imports of luxury consumer durables. Seychelles increased duties on a number of con- sumer goods in June. Singapore raised duties on wines and spirits in May from a range of 19 percent to 240 percent to a range of 22 percent to 280 percent. Thailand increased tariffs on telephone equipment from 5 percent to 30 percent in August. 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS The Yemen Arab Republic announced in March large increases in import duties for a wide range of goods, including luxury products, meat, and veget- ables. Zimbabwe increased customs duties on gasoline and diesel fuel in February and in August, raised import taxes, and imposed an ad valorem duty of 15 percent on imported trucks. Among oil exporting countries, the trend of im- port taxes was also generally upward in 1983. Members of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) (Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates) formally established in September uniform minimum and maximum import tariffs of 4 percent and 20 percent, respectively, on imports from third markets (with certain excep- tions) as a first step toward a common market ar- rangement. Bahrain raised import duties on alco- holic beverages in February from 70 percent to 100 percent, on tobacco products from 30 percent to 35 percent, and on automobiles from 10 percent to 20 percent. Commencing in January Nigeria levied new, or increased (existing), import duties on a wide range of products. Oman increased im- port duties on alcoholic beverages and spirits from 75 percent to 100 percent, and on tobacco products from 30 percent to 50 percent in June, although duties on paints and on ice cream were lowered from 20 percent to 4 percent and from 10 percent to 4 percent, respectively. Saudi Arabia raised cus- toms duties on imports of dry batteries from 3 per- cent to 20 percent in February, and later in the year a duty of 20 percent was levied on imports of sulphuric acid and on imports of eggs, for one year. Advance Import Deposits During 1983 five countries eliminated or reduced the scope of their deposit requirements, and four introduced new schemes. In addition, one country abolished such requirements at the beginning of 1984. In September Colombia reduced its advance exchange license deposit requirement to 35 percent. Greece reduced the advance deposit requirement applicable to specified imports in January by one third of the level prevailing during 1982. In January also, Nigeria reduced import deposit rates for raw materials and spare parts from 25 percent to 10 per- cent and 15 percent, respectively. Turkey reduced the guarantee deposit requirement applicable to commercial importers in January, from 20 percent to 15 percent, and the rate applicable to industri- alists for their own imports and to public sector imports, from 10 percent to 7.5 percent. In addi- 26 tion, coal imports were added to the list of goods subject to a guarantee deposit requirement of only*l percent. In July Uganda eliminated the 5 percent bond payable to the Bank of Uganda for imports. In June, Israel introduced a one-year noninterest- bearing deposit requirement of 15 percent for speci- fied imports equivalent to about 12 percent of total annual imports; the requirement was to be effective for six months and was renewed for a further six months in December. In May Morocco established an advance import deposit requirement of 25 per- cent for most imports, but this was reduced to 15 percent in September. Rwanda introduced a prior import deposit scheme in March for most imports, equivalent to 100 percent or 50 percent of the c.i.f. value, depending on the product. The deposit would be held by the National Bank for the period between validation of the import license and customs clearance of the import. In March Sudan required all private sector imports to be financed in the free foreign exchange market, or from the im- porter's own foreign exchange resources. In August margin requirements for the opening of letters of credit were raised to a range of 40 percent to 100 percent, depending on the products involved. Suriname also introduced an advance import de- posit requirement, in January. Other Measures Affecting Import Payments A number of modifications were made in regula- tions regarding the terms of import payments or the procedures for such payments. In contrast to the experience of the previous year, most of these changes involved easing of the terms of, or the procedures for, import payments. Among industrial countries, Australia abolished in December all restrictions on the timing of import payments. In connection with the removal of re- maining restrictions of capital imports, the Nether- lands announced in July that residents would no longer require prior approval from the Netherlands Bank to delay import payments. As regards devel- oping countries, Algeria in January exempted cer- tain import transactions for which no foreign ex- change or local currency was involved from all exchange and trade control formalities and sim- plified formalities for imported goods used in pub- lic works. Argentina liberalized minimum foreign financing terms for imports in March and April, but made them more restrictive in October. Bangladesh in February reduced the minimum margin require- ment for the opening of letters of credit to 10 per- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES cent of the value of the import in respect of imports of machinery and industrial raw materials under the Wage Earners' Scheme. Bolivia announced in Jan- uary that approved exchange requests for imports would be valid for a period not exceeding six months and that imports must be shipped within three months from the date of exchange approval. In March, Burma suspended forward sales of foreign exchange for imports. Also in March, Chile introduced a minimum import financing require- ment of 120 days. El Salvador announced in Febru- ary that payments for imports of certain items must be settled through the parallel foreign exchange market. Malaysia announced in October that all private sector imports must be financed by letters of credit for a six-month period. Pakistan in June per- mitted authorized dealers to perform certain func- tions without the prior approval of the State Bank of Pakistan, including the opening of usance letters of credit without any time limit. In November autho- rized dealers were permitted to make repayments of principal and interest in respect of suppliers' credits without State Bank approval for each individual remittance. Authorized dealers were also permitted to allow advance remittances against import licenses, without prior State Bank approval, for imports of books, magazines, and journals. In March, Paraguay subjected all imports covered by letters of credit to prior central bank approval. In January, the Philippines restricted authorization to import under arrangements in the form either of documents against acceptance or of open accounts to oil firms and certain exporters. In March, how- ever, authorized agent banks were permitted to sell foreign exchange to cover the importation of a small group of nonessential consumer items without the specific prior approval of the Central Bank. In June required reserves against margin deposits on importers' letters of credit against liberalized im- ports were increased to 100 percent. In July it was announced that importation up to a certain monthly value by any single importer of certain categories of capital equipment would be allowed only if such imports were covered by supplier's credits, or were financed by Asian Development Bank or World Bank credit lines. In September, Thailand doubled the limit up to which authorized agents could ap- prove the purchase of foreign currencies for pay- ment of imports, including advance payments, but in December commercial banks were required to limit for one year the opening of letters of credit for non-oil imports to amounts not exceeding the prev- ious year's level. In October, Trinidad and Tobago required importers to obtain exchange approval from the Central Bank before an import license could be activated. Uganda abolished in June the regime of import licenses not involving use of offi- cial foreign exchange, with certain exceptions. In July, authorization was granted for the private sec- tor to import capital goods on a consignment basis by overseas borrowing subject to approval by the Bank of Uganda. As part of a rationalization of import licensing, Zaire announced in September that payments for imports could be made either upon shipment or upon arrival. The previously ap- plicable time limits for such payments were elimi- nated. Interest payments on foreign financing for imports were authorized only if financing had been obtained in the form of a supplier's credit or other foreign financing with a maturity of at least 90 days. Financing charges were treated as import ex- penses rather than invisible payments. Authorized banks were permitted to pay transportation and in- surance costs in foreign currency only for imports whose payments were made on an f.o.b. basis. State Trading There were few changes in the state-trading prac- tices of Fund members in 1983. In December, Guinea-Bissau authorized private traders to export nontraditional products; they would be allotted a portion of the related foreign exchange earnings to finance their import payments. India in September required exporters to obtain their supplies of mutton tallow from the State Trading Corporation. In March, Jamaica announced that all motor vehicles were required to be imported through the Jamaica Commodity Trading Company. The Lao People's Democratic Republic introduced in July a requirement that settlements for imports be channeled through the Lao Bank for Foreign Trade. Peru eliminated in April the state import monopoly for wheat. Yugoslavia amended on December 31, 1982 the Law on Foreign Exchange Operations and Credit Relations with Foreign Countries, laying down rules on the basis of which organizations of associated labor were to allo- cate earned foreign exchange for various purposes according to self-management agreements. A new element in the law is a strengthening of the role of federal entities at the expense of the regional communities. Exports and Export Proceeds Changes in regulations affecting exports and ex- port proceeds during 1983 reflected both rising dif- 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS ficulties in trade flows among industrial countries and attempts by developing countries to improve export performance and exert more effective con- trol on receipts in the face of payments difficulties. Quantitative export restrictions were eliminated or reduced in a number of countries. Among the industrial countries, the United States lifted in De- cember the prohibition on exports of military equip- ment to Argentina. Among the other countries, Co- lombiai raised the export quota for rice in September. Pakistan eliminated restrictions on ex- ports of several products; including restrictions on firearms and ammunition, special foods, camels, and certain varieties of vegetables. India removed the ban on the export of several commodities; in- cluding writing and printing paper, sugarcane, and chemicals. Panama eliminated restrictions and quotas on the export of coffee, beef cattle, and manufactures in January; and Peru removed restric- tions on the export of certain types of native wool products in May. Thailand permitted exports of religious statues and canned pineapple with prior approval from January, abolished the ban on the exports of cattle and turkey in April and September, respectively, and eliminated controls on the export of a variety of other materials during the year. Zaire freed exports of artisanal gold and diamonds in January. A number of countries increased restrictions or imposed quotas on exports. Brazil in May sus- pended corn exports on a temporary basis. India in February banned or imposed ceilings on the export of cotton yarn; later in the year, bans were imposed on exports of basmati rice, tea, certain artistic goods, and corn oil. India also introduced in 1983 restrictions on the export of peanut butter, jaggery, barley, animal feeds, snake venom, foodgrains, wool tops, black pepper, and raw magnesite. In- donesia imposed in March a ban on the export of textiles and textile products by individuals or firms other than those registered as exporters of textiles and textile products with the Ministry of Trade, and in May a similar measure was announced for ex- ports of processed wood. Also in May, Peru in- troduced a prohibition on exports of cotton. Sudan, which in July had lifted the prohibition on exports of cottonseed cake, imposed later in the year bans on exports of ivory and sorghum. In February, Thailand introduced mandatory minimum quotas on exports of coffee to member countries of the Inter- national Coffee Organization (ICO) within total ex- ports and subjected coffee exports to licensing; soon after midyear the mandatory quota on coffee exports to member countries of the ICO was in- 28 creased, the export of wild animals was regulated, and restrictions were imposed on textile exports to the United States; in December, exports of coats and jackets to Canada were subjected to a quota. In Uruguay veterinary inspection standards were in- troduced in October for meat exports. With effect from January 1, 1984, Iceland re- moved the licensing requirement for most industrial exports. Export licensing requirements were mod- ified in a few countries. Italy eliminated in Decem- ber authorization requirements for certain exports. The United States announced in August the termi- nation of export licensing requirements for the sale of pipe-laying tractors to the U .S .S .R ., and liberalized in November the licensing requirements for exports of a number of high technology products to the People's Republic of China. In November, Sweden introduced a licensing requirement for ex- ports of specialized steel to the United States. Guatemala introduced in July licensing require- ments for exports to Nicaragua, and before the end of the year extended these requirements to exports to Costa Rica, El Salvador, and Honduras. Measures aimed at promoting exports were taken by a number of developing countries in 1983, and in Latin America a few countries moved vigorously to support export industries. Argentina early in the year raised tax rebates from 5-9 percent to 8-11 percent for exports originating from, and ship- ped through, ports located in certain less developed regions. In December these rebates were raised to a range of 8-13 percent and the list of eligible prod- ucts was expanded; in addition it was decreed that these rebates would be reduced by 1 percentage point at the beginning of 1984 and maintained at that level for 11 years. In Ju ly, exports of auto- mobiles were granted a rebate equivalent to 23 per- cent of the export value, but in September this rebate was abolished. During the second semester, a number of export items became eligible for spe- cial rebates, with rates varying between 10 and 15 percent of export receipts. In Colombia a com- pensation scheme for rice exports, implying a sub- sidy equivalent to up to US$60 a ton, was in- troduced in February; in May a subsidy to offset air transportation costs in the export of electrical ap- pliances to Peru was announced, and in September textile exporters were granted a special subsidy equivalent to 5 percent of the increase in the f .o.b. value of exports to European, Latin American, and Caribbean countries. A rate structure for tax credit certificates for nontraditional exports in 1984 was announced by Colombia at the end of August, with the maximum applicable rates increasing to 20 per- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES cent of export value, from 15 percent in 1983. In Guatemala, a system of tax credit certificates for nontraditional exports was adopted in July and ef- fectively introduced in March 1984; tax credit cer- tificates equivalent to 10 percent of the f .o.b. value of eligible exports were granted for exports to coun- tries with which Guatemala has no bilateral or mul- tilateral trade agreements. For new nontraditional exports, the benefit was increased to 15 percent of f.o.b. value and was applied also to new nontradi- tional exports to countries having bilateral or mul- tilateral trade agreements with Guatemala but in which the products were not covered by the agree- ments. Greece introduced in May a subsidy of 6 percent on the drachma value of export proceeds surrendered within 90 days of the date of export. Nepal introduced in June a cash incentive scheme for exports of leather and leather products to coun- tries other than India at rates ranging from 10 per- cent to 20 percent of the f.o.b. export value; in November the scheme was extended to all other exports at the rate of 10 percent, and a number of other tax benefits were announced for overseas ex- ports. Pakistan introduced in June a tax rebate of 4.5 percent on woolen yarn exports. In Senegal export subsidies were increased from 10 percent to 15 percent in February, and the list of eligible exports was extended to products that were in ex- cess supply in the domestic market and to goods whose output could be easily increased. Finally, Thailand increased the rebate on exports of rice to Hong Kong. Some countries reduced or eliminated subsidies. As part of an agreement reached at the beginning of the year between Australia and New Zealand, the two countries would eliminate all performance- based export incentives by 1987 in respect of goods traded bilaterally. A few developing countries also reduced the extent of their reliance on export sub- sidies. Argentina abolished in April a 5 percent special tax rebate on exports to new markets. At about the same time, Ghana eliminated the system of bonuses for all exports except cocoa, residual oil, and electricity. In Pakistan compensatory ex- port rebates on cotton yarn were reduced from 7.5 percent to 4.5 percent in May and were elimi- nated in August, together with those on wool yarn; in addition, the export rebate on leather and leather products, acetate yarn, canvas footwear, and a number of other products was reduced from 12.5 percent to 7.5 percent, and the rebate on gray cloth exports was lowered from 10 percent to 5 percent. Peru eliminated in September all incen- tives applicable to textile exports to the United States that had been subject to countervailing duties. By redefining benefits granted to eligible exports in the form of reimbursement of indirect taxes, Uruguay reduced the effective rate of sub- sidization of nontraditional exports. A small number of countries modified their structure of export taxation in 1983; on balance, reliance on export taxes as a source of fiscal reve- nue appears to have been reduced. Argentina re- duced export taxes on a number of agricultural and mineral products in the second half of the year. In February, export taxes ranging from 9 percent to 20 percent were established in Brazil on a number of agricultural, livestock, and forestry products, but these as well as other export taxes were reduced in the course of the year, and in some cases schedules were set up for their elimination. Costa Rica elimi- nated in August a 1 percent tax on nontraditional exports outside Central America, and abolished in December taxes of 10 and 5 percent levied, respec- tively, on traditional and nontraditional exports to Central America. In Guatemala the above-men- tioned introduction of subsidies in favor of nontra- ditional exports was accompanied by the announce- ment of a schedule for the elimination of taxes on traditional exports over a two-year period ending June 30, 1985. In Guinea-Bissau export duties were eliminated in December, being replaced by a more limited tariff schedule. During the second half of the year, Thailand reduced taxes on a number of export items, including a halving of both a duty and premiums levied on rice exports, and an effective lowering of the royalty rates for tin. Zaire elimi- nated a tax on coffee exports in September, retroac- tive to August 11, 1982. Four countries introduced new taxes or increased existing taxes on exports in 1983. Brazil increased in January the "contribution quota" for coffee. In September, Colombia raised the coffee retention quota (a tax in kind) from 35 percent to 40 percent. In Democratic Kampuchea export taxes were in- troduced at the beginning of the year, together with other trade measures. At the time of a major depre- ciation of the exchange rate of its currency in Jan- uary, Uruguay imposed a 15 percent tax on tradi- tional exports, and a 5 percent tax on combed wool exports; however, the tax on traditional exports was reduced in November from 15 percent to 10 per- cent, and the tax on combed wool exports was eliminated. Some developing countries made increased use of preferential credit facilities to enhance the prof- itability of export activities. Argentina established in November special financing to those meat pack- 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS ing firms that were exporting at least 30 percent of their output during the first half of 1983. In Brazil, the annual interest rate on export financing in foreign currency was lowered in January from a range of 8.5-10.0 percent to 7.5-9.0 percent. Co- lombia increased the access of eligible exporters to preferential credit in March by raising the max- imum permissible amount available under the pre- shipment export credit facility from 80 percent to 90 percent of export value. In addition, Colombia's Banco de la Republica was authorized in March to accept the prior surrender of foreign exchange pro- ceeds by coffee exporters in advance of actual ex- ports, up to a maximum of US$100 million, and for not more than 60 days prior to the date of shipment; in September, the overall ceiling for these opera- tions was increased. Nepal introduced in November a pre-export financing facility at concessional inter- est rates. Pakistan lowered in August the minimum export value requirements for exporters of carpets and rugs using preferential credit, while in October the penal rate of interest was increased for exporters failing to effect shipments within the period stipulated of falling short of performance required. In addition, Pakistan extended in September access to preferential postshipment financing to goods shipped to international fairs and exhibitions. To some extent, the impact of these measures on ex- port activities in Pakistan was weakened by the addition of mutton, beef, and wheat to the list of goods not qualifying for export financing. In April Peru began to provide local currency preshipment financing for exports at a preferential interest rate. In two countries there was a reduction in the extent of subsidization of exports through financing facilities in 1983. Greece discontinued in May ex- port prefinancing at interest rates of lOl/2 percent to 14 percent a year and subjected all export credits to a uniform annual interest rate of MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES market rate. On several occasions during 1983, surrender requirements related to various exports were changed in Paraguay by increasing the propor- tions eligible for surrender at more depreciated ex- change rates. In Sri Lanka exchange dealers were permitted in October to convert foreign exchange proceeds amounting to US$5,000 or more without specific authorization from the Comptroller of Ex- change. Industrial and manufacturing firms in the Syrian Arab Republic became entitled since August to retain up to 50 percent of their export proceeds in special accounts to cover their own imports of raw materials. In Turkey exporters were allowed at the beginning of the year to retain up to 5 percent of exchange receipts in the form of sight deposits with authorized banks denominated in foreign exchange; these funds could be used to make payments abroad for the exporter's own import needs, or to settle domestic debts by issuing checks denominated in Turkish lira against such accounts. Since the begin- ning of 1984, exporters in Turkey have become entitled to retain up to 20 percent of their exchange proceeds without restriction as to its use. In Zaire producers and authorized traders of artisanal gold and diamonds were permitted to open special ac- counts in which they could retain up to 50 percent of the foreign exchange proceeds from sales; such accounts could be used to make payments autho- rized by the Bank of Zaire. In September, however, all such accounts were eliminated, along with elimination of the 30 percent surrender requirement applicable to commercial banks. In Zambia the state copper mining company—the Zambian Cor- poration for Copper Mining —was permitted from August to retain up to 25 percent of its export earnings for its own import needs. Several countries introduced or intensified offi- cial controls over export receipts in 1983. Bolivia in September shortened the period within which ex- port receipts should be surrendered to the Central Bank from 15 days to 3 days. Chile lowered in January the proportion of export proceeds that ex- porters could retain in special foreign exchange accounts, from 10 percent to 5 percent, and limited the inflow into such accounts over any 12-month period to a maximum of US$100,000; in addition, the maximum period for repatriation of export re- ceipts was reduced in March from 150 days to 90 days. Also in March, Ecuador introduced a mecha- nism to control export settlements in foreign cur- rency that was aimed at preventing under-invoicing of exports. In India, minimum export prices of buffaloes, buffalo meat, sheep, and goats were raised in April, and floor prices were announced after midyear for exports of black pepper, a number of chemicals, and certain new varieties of coir prod- ucts. In September, Jordan terminated an exemp- tion from repatriation requirement granted in re- spect of proceeds from re-exports of goods valued at less than JD 1,500. Sudan tightened in March regulations concerning the surrender of export pro- ceeds. The proportion of proceeds to be surrendered to the Bank of Sudan was raised from 50 percent to 75 percent, and all foreign exchange retention schemes were eliminated. Exporters were required to sell the remaining 25 percent of export proceeds to commercial banks at the free exchange rate. In July, Uganda reduced the permitted period for re- patriation of export receipts from six to four months, and to two months for exports to neigh- boring countries or for exports shipped by air. At the time of the adoption of a three-tier foreign exchange system at the end of February, Venezuela introduced surrender requirements for export pro- ceeds. Except for foreign exchange earnings of pri- vate exporters not availing themselves of official export subsidies, all export proceeds were required to be surrendered to the Central Bank at one of the two fixed official exchange rates. The surrender requirement was slightly modified in May when export earnings of the state steel enterprise were permitted to be sold in the free market, and the requirement that private export earnings be surren- dered at one of the two fixed rates to qualify for export incentives was eliminated. At the beginning of the year, Yugoslavia tightened regulations gov- erning the allocation of foreign exchange by the corresponding organizations of associated labor. According to the new regulations, a certain portion of foreign exchange earnings was to be surrendered to the National Bank of Yugoslavia for specific purposes; out of the remaining exchange earnings, a portion was to be retained by the respective group of enterprises, and the rest was to be sold in the unified foreign exchange market. As part of the same regulations, the maximum period for the re- patriation of foreign exchange was extended from 60 to 90 days. In April, more uniform criteria were adopted for the determination of the portion of foreign exchange receipts to be retained by each group of enterprises; retention rates for foreign debt payments were set on the basis of the ratio of estimated obligations in 1983 to total export re- ceipts in 1982, increased by 20 percent, and reten- tion rates for production needs were set at 80 per- cent of the ratio of such needs (excluding capital goods) to exports in 1981-82. In September, Zaire abolished most special convertible accounts held by 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS resident traders and producers for use in making foreign payments; also, all export retention quotas were eliminated, except for those covered by inter- national credit agreements and bilateral conventions between the Government and foreign partners. Countries introduced a variety of other measures that affected exports or export receipts. The United States adopted in June measures implementing the Export Trading Company Act of October 1982. Bank-holding companies were authorized to set up trading companies if at least one half of the net revenue of these companies derived from export operations over a two-year period. In the wake of the devaluation of the drachma at the beginning of the year, special noninterest-bearing special ac- counts were opened at the Bank of Greece for deposit of 60 percent of the windfall gain derived from the devaluation in the case of exports of industrial products shipped before the devaluation date. In Guinea-Bissau it was announced in Decem- ber that private traders would be authorized to ex- port nontraditional products and would be permitted to retain a portion of such earnings to finance their own import needs. Pakistan in July simplified regu- lations concerning administrative procedures to be followed by commercial banks in implementing an export credit scheme. Current Invisibles Changes in regulations relating to current invis- ibles during 1983 tended, on the whole, to tighten controls over these operations. Following the trend in recent years, they affected primarily foreign ex- change allowances for travel of different types. Other changes related mainly to regulations on pay- ments for services performed by nonresidents such as profit, dividend, interest and royalty remittances, as well as imports and exports of bank notes and coin. Virtually all changes in regulations concern- ing current invisible transactions were made by developing countries; faced with a critical external payments situation, a number of countries in- troduced new restrictions or intensified existing re- strictions on payments for invisibles. However, several countries reduced or eliminated restrictions on foreign exchange allocations for travel, medical expenses, or study abroad. Among industrial countries, Finland increased in November the general exchange allocation for travel abroad, as well as the additional allocation for students. In May, Italy raised the amount of foreign exchange allowed for tourist travel abroad 32 from the equivalent of Lit 1.1 million to Lit 1.6 million a person a year; in addition, residents traveling abroad were permitted to take with them up to Lit 200,000 in bank notes a trip. Iceland abolished in July a 10 percent tax on purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad, and Sweden eased, with effect from January 1, 1984, regula- tions concerning exchange allocations for travel abroad. Among developing countries, Bangladesh in May raised the allowance for overland travel to India. In April, Ghana reduced existing taxes on exchange purchases for education, travel, medical treatment, and private transfers abroad. In Hungary the foreign exchange allowance for travel outside the CMEA countries was raised in April and July. Foreign exchange allowances for married nationals studying abroad were increased in July by the Is- lamic Republic of Iran. Pakistan relaxed adminis- trative regulations for student remittances on sev- eral occasions during the year, increased the foreign exchange quota for private travel to India and Ban- gladesh, and raised the foreign exchange allowance for incidental expenses connected with travel abroad. In February South Africa raised the foreign exchange allowance for tourist and business travel and relaxed controls on remittances abroad from estates of deceased persons and transfers by emi- grants. Similarly, the foreign exchange allowance for tourist and business travel was raised in Swazi- land. Sri Lanka increased both annual living allow- ances for education and the travel allowance for Indian nationals traveling to India; on the other hand, members of foreign missions and their non- Sri Lankan staff traveling abroad were prohibited from taking foreign currency notes in excess of 20 percent of their travel expenses. With effect from the beginning of 1984, Turkey liberalized access to foreign exchange for travel abroad as well as for other invisible transactions. Limitations on tourist travel (number of trips abroad a year) were eliminated, and commercial banks were authorized to handle a number of invisible transactions without need for specific central bank authorization. Reductions in travel allowances and other restric- tive measures were imposed by a number of coun- tries in 1983. In several cases, the changes involved a major tightening of regulations concerning invis- ible transactions. In March, France limited the gen- eral foreign exchange allocation on travel abroad for other than business purposes from F 5,000 a trip to F 2,000 a year; the use of credit cards was restricted to business travel only, and foreign ex- change purchases were subject to recording. Soon afterward, the foreign exchange allocation for re- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES mittances abroad without supporting evidence was tightened. Before the end of the year, however, the above regulations were eliminated, with the excep- tion of a restriction imposed on the use of credit cards for expenses other than business travel. Ex- cept for an announcement by the Central Bank in July to the effect that sales of foreign exchange for travel, study, family remittances, or medical treat- ment in excess of established limits would be autho- rized in duly justified cases, travel restrictions were intensified in Argentina after midyear, culminating in the suspension of all official sales of foreign exchange for an indefinite period in September. Together with the imposition of overall limits on the access to foreign exchange by private individ- uals over the course of a fiscal year, Bolivia in- troduced in January limits on foreign exchange allo- cations for travel and medical treatment abroad. In Brazil the basic foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad was halved in March and again in September; on the other hand, foreign exchange sales for travel and business representation ex- penses were exempted in March from the 25 per- cent financial transactions tax. Chile, Colombia, and Suriname also reduced travel allowances in 1983, accompanied in Colombia by the introduc- tion of a prior import deposit on the purchase of foreign exchange for travel and the establishment of individual licensing requirements for payments of international travel, freight, and bank commissions. After midyear Colombia raised the prior import deposit and tightened further allowances for special groups of travelers. In Costa Rica the monthly foreign exchange allowance available at the official exchange rate for remittances to students pursuing higher education abroad was halved in Ju ly and abolished at the end of the year; in addition, most invisible payments became subject to a 1 percent tax from August. In October, airline companies operating in the Dominican Republic were in- structed to require nonresident aliens traveling to the Dominican Republic to have in their possession valid round-trip tickets purchased in the country of departure. Ecuador limited from March access to the official market for remittances to graduate and handicapped students engaged in special training courses. Egypt, Israel, and Morocco introduced ad- ministrative changes relating to purchases of foreign exchange for travel. Likewise, Israel and Morocco introduced taxes on travel by nationals abroad, with the exception in Morocco of students, pilgrims, emigrant workers, and those traveling on official business. The Islamic Republic of Iran in May reduced the max imum foreign exchange al- lowance for travel abroad. After midyear Guatemala tightened regulations on the sale of foreign exchange for travel to Central America and Mexico. In Malta regulations concerning the foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel were tightened after midyear. In Nicaragua, regulations were issued at the beginning of the year requiring foreign tourists to pay hotel room charges and tele- phone calls in U.S. dollars, and for those aged 18 years or above to exchange at least US$60 at the official exchange rate upon arrival. In March, the exchange rate applicable in Nicaragua to authorized purchases of foreign exchange for travel, study, and medical treatment (and subsequently educational fees and family remittances) was changed from the official to the parallel market rate; at the same time, however, a number of invisible receipts (including those from tourism, remittances, and sales of foreign currency by embassies and agencies of in- ternational organizations to cover local expenses) were permitted to be transacted at the depreciated parallel market rate. Following the imposition of tight controls on foreign exchange operations by banks and exchange dealers in the Philippines, re- strictions on access to foreign exchange for busi- ness travel abroad were intensified after midyear and tourist travel allocations were reduced. In Octo- ber Rwanda suspended indefinitely authorizations for the purchase of tickets and foreign exchange relating to tourist, religious or family travel, or travel to attend conferences or participate in sport activities; at the same time, restrictions were im- posed on business and official travel and on the treatment of leave for foreign residents working in Rwanda. After midyear, regulations concerning foreign travel were considerably tightened in Uganda; foreign exchange allocations were more than halved and certain forms of access to foreign exchange for travel were made subject to specific authorization. In addition, the limit on foreign ex- change purchases for other invisibles transactions was reduced, and the freedom of commercial banks to sell foreign exchange in small amounts was cur- tailed. In Venezuela access to official foreign ex- change was discontinued in February for invisible transactions other than authorized debt payments, approved public sector expenses abroad, costs con- nected with approved merchandise imports, and authorized student remittances. Zimbabwe in- troduced wide-ranging increases in exchange re- strictions in March 1984. Increased restrictions were imposed on the remittances of dividends and profits, emigrant income, property income, and pri- vate transfers; and foreign securities holdings of 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE A R R A N G EM E N TS AND E X C H A N GE RESTR ICT IONS residents and former residents were acquired by the Government with compensation in nontransferable local currency. Several countries enacted measures affecting transactions performed by nonresidents and remit- tances of nonresident income such as profits, divi- dends, interest, pensions, royalties, and insurance proceeds. In some cases, the changes tended to eliminate or reduce restrictions on current transac- tions. France raised in December the limit on per- missible undocumented outward remittances from F 1,000 to F 1,500 a person a quarter and increased that on transfers to relatives abroad from F 2,000 to F 3,000 an applicant a month. Among developing countries Barbados reduced in June a levy on pur- chases of foreign exchange for private sector remit- tances abroad (other than import payments, travel and education expenses, and minor nontrade pay- ments). The People's Republic of China eliminated in February the restriction on remittances abroad of after-tax earnings by foreign workers and employ- ees. In the Dominican Republic the Central Bank incorporated during the year a number of invisible receipts in the list of goods and services qualifying for foreign exchange certificates and permitted the conversion of some invisible receipts at the ex- change rate established for the parallel market by the Exchange Commission; on the other hand, pay- ments for insurance premiums were eliminated from the list of invisible payments having access to foreign exchange at the official rate, and the use of dollar accounts for remittances abroad was re- stricted. After excluding in March virtually all pay- ments for invisibles from access to foreign ex- change at the official exchange rate, Ecuador intro- duced regulations that authorized the Central Bank to pay in foreign currency the three-month LIBOR interest rate to importers or financial institutions that had paid interest abroad for foreign exchange that they were entitled to obtain at the official rate, but that was not made available by the Central Bank. In June importers and financial institutions were given the option to be paid in domestic cur- rency or in foreign exchange by means of a certifi- cate redeemable within a certain period from the date of payment of the interest abroad. In June also, access to foreign exchange at the official exchange rate was authorized for payment of interest on pri- vate sector loans not conforming to the domestic refinancing alternatives offered by the Government. In Nicaragua, airlines were authorized to purchase foreign exchange at the relatively depreciated paral- lel market exchange rate to remit their net income from authorized activities, while in Pakistan foreign 34 exchange dealers were permitted to service debts arising from suppliers' credits without State Bank approval for each remittance, if the repayment pro- gram and conditions of the credit had already been approved by the State Bank. Pakistan also raised in December the limit on individual family remit- tances abroad by foreign nationals from US$500 to US$750 a month. Singapore eliminated in April a stamp duty on traveler's checks and other checks. In February, Swaziland relaxed regulations on a number of invisible payments and in December credit card holders in the Rand Monetary Area were authorized to use such cards outside the Area, up to the amount of the applicable travel allowance. A number of countries intensified restrictions with respect to income remittances to nonresidents, and to payments for services and tightened official controls over inflows. Argentina introduced a regu- lation in May requiring net foreign exchange re- ceipts from air or sea (and later land) freight and transportation services, and from insurance and reinsurance activity to be surrendered within 30 days of receipt; in July the Central Bank an- nounced that sales of foreign exchange for set- tlement of credit card obligations incurred abroad after July 25, 1983 would not be authorized. In addition, while access to foreign exchange at the official rate for remittance of profits, dividends, royalties and technical assistance payments were restored in August after being suspended since April 1982, all sales of foreign exchange were made subject to prior central bank approval in Sep- tember. In May Bolivia introduced the requirement that nonresidents, excluding members of diplomatic missions and international organizations, pay air- line tickets in U.S. dollars. During 1983, Brazil imposed and maintained requirements pursuant to which debt service payments, due in connection with financial obligations owed abroad, were to be made in domestic currency to accounts opened for the respective creditors in the Central Bank; pend- ing the payment in foreign currency to the respec- tive creditors, the deposits were denominated in the foreign currencies in which the obligations were expressed. Profit remittances, interest and amorti- zation payments, and a number of other invisible payments were made subject to central bank authorization from March in Chile. In February, El Salvador interrupted access to the official market for foreign exchange for payments of commissions and royalties incurred since 1982 and for payments for the leasing of movies and television films. While authorization for employment abroad by pri- vate citizens was decentralized in Hungary, wages ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES earned abroad under such employment were made subject to a 20 percent repatriation and conversion requirement. Jordan introduced in June a 0.1 per- cent fee on all foreign exchange permits for invis- ible payments. Paraguay banned from June the re- patriation of retained earnings, except in instances in which substantial hardship could be demon- strated. In Sri Lanka the conversion by authorized dealers of traveler's checks exceeding a certain value was made subject to prior approval by the Comptroller of Exchange, except in the case of payments for goods supplied or services rendered. Sudan abolished in March all convertible currency accounts in Sudanese pounds; foreign exchange re- ceipts from hotels and transactions by foreign com- panies, diplomatic missions, and international organizations to cover local expenses were required to be surrendered to the Bank of Sudan at the official exchange rate. Regulations affecting the import and export of foreign and domestic currency notes were changed in a few countries. Finland lifted, as of January 1, 1984, the prohibition on the import and export of 500 markka notes and doubled the value of foreign exchange that could be freely exported. In April, Iceland raised the permissible amount of Icelandic bank notes and coins in denominations not exceed- ing ISK 100 which may be brought into or taken out of the country from ISK 1,200 to ISK 2,100. Swe- den eliminated at the end of the year the prohibition on export and import of Swedish bank notes of denominations higher than SKr 100. In Algeria the importation of convertible currency notes by non- resident nationals was permitted, provided that the importation was declared upon entry into the coun- try. In some countries regulations concerning cur- rency notes were tightened. Colombia imposed a ceiling on the sale of foreign exchange to foreign tourists leaving the country. Effective January 1, 1984, Korea lowered the value of foreign currency holdings that foreign visitors could bring into the country without declaration from US$10,000 to US$5,000. In Suriname traders were required to declare all domestic and foreign currencies held in their possession upon entry into the country, and resident traders, to exchange all foreign currency holdings at an authorized bank; in addition, nonres- idents were required to take out of the country a smaller amount of foreign currency than that de- clared on entry. Finally, the Yemen Arab Republic prohibited in August the export of bank notes for more than YRls 100,000 in the case of Yemen rial notes, or the equivalent of US$30,000 in the case of foreign currency notes, without the prior authoriza- tion of the Central Bank. Payments Arrears External payments arrears occur when the au- thorities of a country are responsible for undue delays, beyond those required by normal adminis- trative procedures, in approving applications or in meeting bona fide requests for foreign exchange to settle payments for which approval, if needed, has been previously granted.5 Generally speaking, they emerge when other measures to correct an unsus- tainable balance of payments position have not been adopted soon enough, or are of insufficient strength. An increase in arrears raises the riskiness of international lending, and countries in arrears are accorded reduced access to international capital markets. A further consequence is that the cost of international credit, as well as of imported goods and services, becomes higher than would otherwise be the case for most borrowers. In view of the particularly adverse consequences for the country maintaining arrears and for the international pay- ments system, performance criteria for the elimina- tion or substantial reduction of payments arrears in an orderly and nondiscriminatory manner constitute an important element of programs supported by the use of the Fund's resources.6 Where there is no program in effect with the Fund, the incurrence of arrears and related policies have been subject to careful scrutiny in the context of Article IV consul- tations with the Fund. The Fund has also consis- tently followed the practice of not approving the 5 Payments arrears constitute an exchange restriction under the Fund's Article VIII, Section 2(a) when they involve current international transactions as described in Article XXX, Section (d) of the Fund's Articles of Agreement, and are therefore subject to approval under Article VIII. When payments arrears are incurred by the government because it is unable to obtain domestic currency with which to purchase needed foreign ex- change, such arrears are treated as government defaults rather than exchange restrictions; this occurs, for instance, when the government of a country belonging to a common central bank arrangement is unable to obtain domestic currency with which to purchase needed foreign exchange from the common central bank. This distinction between payments arrears and defaults is relevant, however, only for the purpose of the Fund's jurisdic- tion under Article VIII; under the Fund's policy on the use of its resources, defaults as well as payments arrears on capital transfers and current payments are examined, and their orderly elimination is usually made a performance criterion. 6In March 1982, and again in January 1983, the Fund re- viewed the implementation of its policies with respect to pay- ments arrears. The major conclusions of these reviews were summarized in the Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1983, pages 37-38. 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON E X C H A N GE A R R A N G E M E N TS AND E X C H A N GE RE STR ICT IONS exchange restriction evidenced by the existence of arrears with respect to current international pay- ments under Article VIII of the Fund's Articles, except when a satisfactory program for their elimi- nation is in place. During 1977-81, the total payments arrears of Fund members (including those in respect of capital transactions) and government defaults had re- mained relatively constant, amounting to between SDR 5 billion and SDR 6 billion, but, by the end of 1982, they almost quadrupled to SDR 22.6 billion. According to the latest information available, the total of payments arrears incurred by Fund mem- bers is estimated to have risen to SDR 25.8 billion at the end of 1983. The number of Fund members incurring payments arrears has been rising con- tinuously, and this trend continued in 1983 as the number rose from 38 to 42. Of the 52 Fund mem- bers incurring payments arrears at some point dur- ing 1976-83, only 10 have managed to eliminate them. Of the remaining countries, 10 countries ex- perienced virtually continuously rising arrears in recent years, whereas only 3 countries demon- strated a steady decline. Of the 42 countries incur- ring, or believed to be incurring, external payments arrears or government defaults at the end of 1983, the 40 countries for which information for the end of 1983 is available are Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Chad, Congo, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Sal- vador, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Liberia, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Paraguay, the Philippines, St. Lucia, Sierra Leone, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Western Samoa, Zaire, and Zambia. Although no information for the end of 1983 is available for the other two countries (Benin, and Guinea-Bissau) that had payments ar- rears or government defaults at the end of 1981 and 1982, it is unlikely that these countries eliminated the arrears or defaults by the end of 1983. The global estimate of the outstanding payments arrears and government defaults at the end of 1983, there- fore, includes the data for the end of 1982 of these countries (and, in one instance, the end of 1981). During 1983, payments arrears emerged for the first time since 1976 in Brazil, Ivory Coast, Para- guay, St. Lucia, the Philippines, and Venezuela. Jamaica eliminated payments arrears in 1982 but incurred new arrears in 1983. Four countries— Central African Republic, Haiti, Romania, and Yugoslavia—eliminated payments arrears or gov- ernment defaults in 1983. Brazil eliminated arrears 36 in March 1984. In the course of 1983, of the coun- tries that had payments arrears or government de- faults at the end of 1982, the outstanding amount rose in 12 countries (Antigua and Barbuda, Chad, The Gambia, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Mad- agascar, Mauritania, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, and Tanzania) and declined in 19 countries (Argentina, Belize, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Domini- can Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ghana, Guatemala, Liberia, Mali, Mexico, Sudan, Togo, Uganda, Viet Nam, Western Samoa, Zaire, and Zambia). In one country (Congo) the outstanding amount remained unchanged. The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1983 (pages 38-39) noted that negotiations with a number of Fund members aimed at rescheduling overdue and future payments obligations were underway or were ex- pected to commence during the last quarter of 1982. During 1983, the debts of 25 Fund members were rescheduled or refinanced, and negotiations were under way with a further 4 Fund members. The total of payments obligations for which reschedul- ing agreements were signed or agreed in principle in 1983 is estimated to have amounted to SDR 67.6 billion; the total was SDR 5.5 billion in 1982. Of the rescheduling in 1983, over SDR 30 billion was in respect of debt service payments already in ar- rears or falling due in 1983. The following 20 countries incurring external arrears during 1983 were involved in these restructuring exercises in 1983: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Guyana, Jamaica, Liberia, Madagascar, Mexico, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Romania, Sudan, Togo, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire, and Zambia. The restructurings were aimed at helping countries achieve a more sustainable bal- ance of payments and reserves position by improv- ing the maturity structure of the external debts pro- files and by regularizing outstanding external arrears, while adjustment programs aimed at strengthening the balance of payments were implemented. At the end of 1983, adjustment programs sup- ported by stand-by or extended arrangements, all in the higher credit tranches, were in effect in the following 16 countries that were identified as incur- ring payments arrears or government defaults; Argentina, Brazil, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Ghana, Guatemala, Jamaica, Liberia, Mali, Mex- ico, Sudan, Togo, Uganda, Western Samoa, Zaire, and Zambia. In addition, a stand-by arrangement with Sierra Leone was approved in February, 1984. All programs provided for a phased reduction or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES elimination of payments arrears or government de- faults during a specified period as a performance criterion. Fourteen of these countries reduced pay- ments arrears or government defaults during 1983. In a number of adjustment programs, a counterpart deposit requirement in local currency was in- troduced as a means of maintaining a reliable record on payments arrears and of monitoring the bona fides of foreign exchange applications. Such de- posit requirements also helped effect an orderly elimination of payments arrears by ensuring that domestic debtors had sufficient financial resources when foreign exchange was released and also served as a means of moderating liquidity expansion. Multiple Currency Practices Article VIII, Section 3 of the Fund's Articles of Agreement prohibits a member from engaging in, or permitting its fiscal agencies to engage in, any discriminatory currency arrangements or multiple currency practices without the approval of the Fund.7 Such practices encompass separate ex- change rates (through the mechanism of dual or multiple exchange markets, the establishment of separate official exchange rates for specified trans- actions, or the application of exchange measures, including exchange taxes or subsidies, and exces- sive exchange rate spreads), broken cross rates, or discriminatory currency arrangements. During 1983, as in 1980-82, about one third of the Fund's members engaged in multiple currency practices,8 although on a trade-weighted basis the proportion of developing country members with these practices has risen considerably since 1980 and the impor- tance of the practices in the individual economies has grown. Nevertheless, the recent trend toward increased incidence of multiple currency practices among Fund members leveled off somewhat in 1983. The trade-weighted proportion of developing countries maintaining the practices fell to 34 per- cent, from 40 percent at end-1982, and 28 percent in 1980. During 1983 multiple currency practices were eliminated by eight members. Barbados eliminated 7For a detailed description of Fund policies relating to multi- ple currency practices and the criteria applied by the Fund in determining the existence of mu l t ip le currency practices and broken cross rates, see the Annual Report on Exchange Ar- rangements and Exchange Restrictions, 1980, page 17, and 1981, pages 22-23. 8In this section all forms of mu l t ip le currency practices are discussed, irrespective of the transactions invo lved. differential fees on the sales of foreign exchange for certain current transactions with effect from the end of May. In November Bolivia abolished an 8 per- cent premium on foreign exchange receipts from tourism. In July Iceland abolished the 10 percent exchange tax on purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad. Kenya eliminated its advance import deposit scheme in January. Lesotho in February eliminated the discounted "financial rand" market in conjunction with South Africa's exchange rate unification. In early June, Nepal ended the practice of simultaneously maintaining fixed exchange rates against the U.S. dollar and the Indian rupee-an arrangement that had given rise to frequent broken cross rates in the past. In view of the strengthening of both the balance of payments and domestic fi- nancial situation, the South African authorities abolished exchange controls on nonresidents by eliminating the floating financial rand, and thereby made all foreign exchange transactions subject to the ruling unitary rate of exchange for the rand. Concurrently, Swaziland abolished its freely float- ing financial rand market. During 1983, six members eliminated some mul- tiple currency practices, but not all. In April, Argentina abolished, as part of a stand-by ar- rangement with the Fund, a special 5 percent rebate for exports to new markets. In March Colombia eliminated a 5 percent discount applied to the early conversion of proceeds from certain exports and invisibles. Ghana, in October, abolished the multi- ple exchange rate system which was introduced in April and unified its exchange rate at (£ 30 = US$1. In Nigeria, the exchange rate of the naira is determined on the basis of an import-weighted bas- ket; at times, however, the nominal naira rate has been kept unchanged in terms of the U .S. dollar or the pound sterling, so that the cross rates implicit in the official quotations for the two currencies have tended occasionally to diverge from those prevail- ing in international exchange markets; such a situa- tion emerged for a time from August, but was eliminated in mid-November. In Ju ly, Sierra Leone's dual exchange market, comprising official and commercial rates introduced in 1982, was un- ified. With effect from September, Zaire abolished the system of imports financed without recourse to the foreign exchange resources of the banking sys- tem as well as the relance miniere exchange market. Other reductions in member's reliance on spe- cific multiple currency practices occurred in 10 countries in 1983. In Belgium and Luxembourg the exchange rate spread between the official and finan- 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS cial markets narrowed to less than 2 percent by mid- 1983. In March, the financial transactions tax (IOF) maintained by Brazil was reduced from 25 percent to 15 percent for a specific list of commodity im- ports and reduced from 25 percent to 12 percent for the same commodity imports from LAFTA and LAIA countries. The IOF was, however, extended in December to the sale of foreign exchange for imports of petroleum products. Later in the same month, Brazil also reduced the export taxes on soybeans and soybean by-products, Brazil nu t s, un- processed animal hides, lumber, and processed wood from 20 percent to 5 percent. In addition, the Brazilian authorities adopted reduced rates of ex- port taxes for cocoa and cocoa by-products, and certain minerals. In December, the exchange tax on cornmeal exports was eliminated; the mu l t ip le cur- rency practices arising from exchange taxes on re- ceipts from exports of beef, cattle, hides, orange ju ice, and tangerine ju ice were eliminated by their conversion into taxes on physical movements of exports; and the multiple currency practice relating to remittances of profits and dividends was also eliminated by amendment of the graduated supple- mentary tax. In January 1984 mu l t ip le currency practices arising from discriminatory exchange taxes were eliminated for a number of export items. Costa Rica's three-tier exchange rate system, con- sisting of an official, a bank ing, and a free rate, was simplified by the unification of the banking and the free exchange rates in November 1983. Subse- quently, almost all foreign exchange transactions took place in the unified market. The dual exchange rate system in Ecuador underwent several changes in 1983: following the devaluation in March, the official rate was depreciated periodically. The au- thorities also shifted some of the transactions from the official to the parallel market in an effort to promote convergence of the two rates. In March the Egyptian authorities changed a special exchange rate applicable to visible transactions under bilateral payments agreements with the U .S .S .R. from the previous LE 1 = US$2.55555 to LE 1 = US$2.22222, for a period of one year; the rate was also applied to visible transactions w i th in the bilat- eral payments arrangement w i th the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. In April, Ghana ap- plied a temporary uniform tax of 5 percent on pur- chases of foreign exchange for education, travel, medical treatment abroad, and unrequited private transfers. These purchases had previously been sub- ject to foreign exchange transfer taxes ranging from 50 percent to 80 percent. In January Greece reduced cash deposit requirements against imports by one 38 half; the cumulative reduction of the cash deposit requirements since the time of Greece's accession to the EC in January 1981 has been 75 percent. Roman ia's multiple exchange rate regime was further simplified. With effect from J u l y, the re- maining special rates for certain exports were abol- ished, and a unified commercial exchange rate was established. The authorities envisaged un i fy ing the commercial and noncommercial rates in 1984. Under the dual exchange rate system in Uganda, the progressive shift of transactions from "Window One" (a market in which foreign exchange is al- located at a preferential rate managed by the Bank of Uganda for specified transactions such as certain imports, public debt service paymen ts, etc.) to "Window Two" (a market in which a limited amount of foreign exchange is sold for all payments not eligible for f inanc ing at the first window in a weekly auction administered by the Bank of Uganda) has proceeded, and a significant real effec- tive depreciation resulted. Six countries that previously had not maintained any mu l t ip le currency practices introduced them in 1983. In Ju ly, the Lao People's Democratic Re- pub l ic introduced a special rate of KN 108 = US$1 for inward private remittances. Rwanda introduced in March an advance import deposit scheme, whereby noninterest-bearing deposits equivalent to 50-100 percent of the c. & f. va lue were required. In January, the Somali authorities instituted on a temporary basis a bonus scheme providing for a 33 percent premium (So. Sh. 5 = US$1) above the official exchange rate for workers' remittances and capital inflows effected by Somali nationals. Prior- ity in granting import licenses is accorded to indi- viduals who have remitted foreign exchange through the bonus scheme. In Janua ry, Suriname introduced an advance deposit scheme for import paymen ts. In February, fo l low ing two days of sus- pension of all foreign exchange operations, the au- thorities of Venezuela established a three-tier ex- change system w i th the fo l low ing rates: (1) the previously existing exchange rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1 applicable to oil exports, priority imports, external debt obligations, certain private debt ser- vice paymen ts, and a few other categories; (2) a rate of Bs 6.00 = US$1 applicable to imports of capital goods and ind iv idual imports; and (3) a floating exchange rate applicable to nontraditional exports and all other transactions permitted. In March, a list of "essential imports" was pub l ished, and this list was expanded several times in the course of the year. In March 1984, the exchange arrangements were modified as fo l lows: (1) an exchange rate of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTR ICT IVE PRACTICES Bs 7.50 = US$1 applies to all foreign exchange sales to the private and public sectors by the Central Bank of Venezuela as authorized under the ex- change and import control system, except as indi- cated below; (2) an exchange rate of Bs 6.00 = US$1 applies to all foreign exchange transactions of the oil and iron ore sectors; (3) an exchange rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1 applies to (a) amortization pay- ments of public and certain private external debt, and interest payments on such debt in arrears as of December 31, 1983. Private debt eligible for this rate includes only debts outstanding as of Febru- ary 18, 1983, registered at RECADI (the Advisory Committee for the Multiple Exchange Rate Sys- tem), and rescheduled into seven-year loans with a two-year grace period, and (b) on a temporary basis, and until not later than December 31, 1985, essential imports of food and medicines, and ex- penses of registered students abroad; and (4) foreign exchange for a limited number of non- prohibited imports, and all other transactions in- cluding private external debt not eligible for the Bs 4.30 = US$1 rate, will have to be obtained from the free market. Export receipts of the private sector and of the public sector entities other than those referred to above may be sold in the free market. In early April, Yugoslavia introduced a scheme entitl- ing foreign tourists to a 10 percent discount on goods and services paid for in dinar traveler's checks. Actions creating new multiple currency practices or intensifying existing multiple currency practices were taken in 11 countries. In January 1983, the rebates maintained by Argentina for goods originat- ing in and shipped through ports in specified less developed regions of the country were increased from a range of 5 percent to 9 percent to a range of 8 percent to 11 percent, with a view to restoring the average rebate to approximately the level that had prevailed before December 1982. Brazil, which had maintained a discriminatory multiple currency prac- tice arising from the taxes on the export of certain manufactured goods to the United States, intro- duced discriminatory taxes on steel bar and rod products in March, on frozen concentrated orange juice in April, and on tool steel in May. In March Chile, which had maintained a preferential rate for debt service payments for debt contracted before August 1982, established a third rate —permitting foreign exchange transactions between private par- ties provided that such transactions were under- taken occasionally and without publicity. At the same time, the Chilean authorities imposed a 12 percent exchange tax on the sale of foreign exchange for payments of goods imported with import licenses issued prior to March 23, 1983. In April Colombia introduced an advance deposit on the purchase of foreign exchange for travel purposes at the rate of Col$15 = US$1, which was then raised to Col$50 = US$1 in Ju ly. Furthermore, in August, the Colombian authorities raised the rates for tax credit certificates granted to most nontraditional exports and applicable to the foreign exchange value of the export. In August also, Costa Rica modified the existing multiple currency practice arising from a stamp tax on foreign payments, which was subsequently eliminated in December. Egypt, in Ju ly, introduced a 20 percent administra- tive charge on purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes. In April, in the process of abolish- ing a 20 percent tax on the value of letters of credit as well as a 20 percent bonus for all exports except for cocoa and electricity, Ghana introduced a tem- porary exchange rate regime based on a system of bonuses and surcharges to be applied by authorized foreign exchange banks and dealers; the regime was abolished in October in the context of a stand-by arrangement with the Fund. Jamaica's exchange arrangement was complex during most of 1983: in January, a dual exchange system was introduced by the official legalization of the parallel market; in May, a special exchange rate of J$2.25 = US$1 was established for all CARICOM transactions, ex- cept those previously designated for payments at the official exchange rate of J$l .78 = US$1. Three exchange rates were thus maintained until Novem- ber when they were unified at a rate within a band of J$3.00 and J$3.30 per US$1. At this time, a 3 percent commission which had been introduced ear- lier in the year for all payments retained in the official market, except Bank of Jamaica's debt ser- vice and public sector amortization payments, was abolished. The commission was also applicable to all imports obtained under external credits, the local currency value of which was determined at the official rate. Sudan had maintained a dual exchange market with two separately fixed rates against the U.S. dollar; in May 1983, however, a third, "unof- ficial" market emerged, reflecting a reduction in the supply of foreign exchange in the free market due largely to institutional changes made during the first several months of 1983 that imparted uncertainty to the market. In early 1983, Viet Nam introduced a preferential rate of D 20 per US$1 for salary remit- tances by Vietnamese workers in the nonconvert- ible areas. In Zaire, a temporary dual exchange rate arrangement, involving two phases, was introduced in September 1983. In the first phase, which ended 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANG EM EN TS AND EXCHANGE RESTR ICT IONS on October 14, 1983, the free market rate was set once a week by the commercial banks, in consulta- tion with the Bank of Zaire; the spread between the official and free market was limited to 10 percent. Since the beginning of the second phase, the free rate has been determined on an interbank foreign exchange market; the spread between the two rates was brought to under 5 percent on October 4, 1983, and to under 2.5 percent on December 29, 1983. The two rates were unified on February 24, 1984. Changes occurred in dual or multiple exchange rate regimes of one member that did not substan- tially alter the arrangements themselves. Spreads between the official and the secondary market in Bangladesh v ir tua l ly disappeared temporarily in 1983 but have recently increased. Bilateral Payments Arrangements Bilateral payments arrangements maintained be- tween Fund members constitute restrictive ex- change practices under Article VIII of the Fund's Articles of Agreement when they involve exchange restrictions or multiple currency practices. A basic feature of bilateral payments arrangements, wh ich gives rise to a restriction on the making of paymen ts and transfers for current international transactions within the meaning of Article V I I I, Section 2(a), is that balances in the bilateral accoun t, which is typ- ically established to settle bilateral trade transac- tions, can be used only to make settlements be- tween the two partner countries and cannot be transferred into another currency or be used to make payments to a third country. Even where the trans- ferability of balances in the bilateral account is allowed, an exchange restriction may be involved if the period between transfers is undu ly long. A dis- criminatory currency arrangement w i th in the amb it of Article VIII, Section 3 of the Fund 's Articles may also be involved, if credit balances in the bilateral account are not remunerated at the prevail- ing representative interest rate, or if transfers of balances are made at exchange rates whose cross rate differentials exceed more than 1 percent. In September 1982 the Executive Board reviewed the Fund's policy with respect to bilateral payments and countertrade arrangements. The conclusions of that review were summarized in the Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restric- tions, 1983 (pages 44-45). The 1983 Report noted that there was a fur ther decline in the number of bilateral payments agreements ( inc lud ing inopera- tive agreements) maintained between Fund mem- 40 bers and between Fund members and non-Fund members in 1982. At the end of 1982, the total number of bilateral payments agreements main- tained between Fund members was 62, and the total number of bilateral payments agreements main- tained between Fund members and non-Fund mem- bers was 84. During 1983 nine bilateral payments agreements between Fund members were terminated: In April, those between Algeria and Guinea, Algeria and Guinea-Bissau, Egypt and the Yemen Arab Re- public, and Egypt and Jordan and during the year those between Cape Verde and Guinea-Bissau, and Finland and the People's Republic of China. In addition, the agreement between the Islamic Re- public of Iran and Pakistan expired in May and had not been renewed by the end of the year. Brazil eliminated the restrictive features of bilateral agree- ments w i th Hungary and Romania. In 1983, al- though a number of Fund members renewed the expiring bilateral paymen ts agreements with other members and with non-Fund members, no new agreements were concluded between Fund mem- bers, or between Fund members and non-Fund members. As a result of the changes described above, at the end of 1983 the total number of bilateral paymen ts agreements maintained between Fund members declined to 53, and the total number of agreements maintained between Fund members and non-Fund members remained unchanged since the end of 1982 at 84. Detailed information on the value of trade con- ducted under bilateral payments arrangement is not available for most Fund members maintaining such arrangements. On the assumption that the value of trade between Fund members ma in ta in ing bilateral payments agreements represents the max imum value of trade conducted under bilateral payments arrangements, the total value of such trade was equ iva lent to less than ]/4 of 1 percent of the value of world trade of Fund members in 1982. It is most likely that the value of trade conducted under bilat- eral payments arrangements is considerably smaller than the above ratio suggests, because all trade between Fund members maintaining bilateral pay- ments arrangements is not u sua l ly settled under the arrangements; in many instances, only the trade of a group of products specified in an accompanying trade agreement is settled under bilateral payments arrangements. In recent years, as reported in the 1983 Report, countertrade arrangements have become an increas- ingly important form of bilateralism. Countertrade refers to bilateral trading arrangements between ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES foreign trade organizations or private firms in the exporting and importing country, under which the seller is obligated to purchase, as a partial or total settlement for his merchandise exports, or in some instances sales of services in the form of technology and industrial licenses, specified goods or services from the importing country on a barter basis or during a specified period. Reliable estimates of trade conducted under countertrade arrangements are not available because such arrangements are most often engaged in by individual firms without the knowledge of the government, or in instances where governments engage in such arrangements and strategic goods are involved, trade data are not published. Capital Flows During 1983, on the whole, changes in the regu- lations governing capital flows in the developing as well as industrial countries do not appear to have had an important impact on international capital flows. Rather, international capital flows continued to be influenced by interest rate differentials, expectations regarding exchange rate movements, particularly the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, and the financing requirements of industrial countries experiencing defi- cits on external current account. The pattern of inter- national capital flows was also affected by the emerg- ence of some of the oil exporting countries as net borrowers on the international capital market, and by the borrowing requirements of developing countries with large debt service burdens. Nevertheless, the long-term trend toward liberalization of capital con- trol regulations was sustained in the industrial coun- tries and was not significantly eroded in the group of developing countries, despite the severe balance of payments difficulties. However, existing regulations tended to be administered more restrictively in the latter group. Several changes in the regulations governing in- ternational operations of commercial banks in both the industrial and developing countries occurred during 1983. In December Australia permitted fi- nancial institutions to offer accounts denominated in foreign currency to their clients. The restriction on the investment of funds accruing interest in Aus- tralia by foreign governments, government agen- cies, and foreign banks, including central banks, was retained. In April Japan increased by 20 per- cent the amount of foreign currencies allowed to be converted into yen by foreign banks in Japan that had used more than 80 percent of their conversion quotas in the previous months. At the same time, the minimum required net overall foreign ex- change position of foreign banks was increased to US$1 million. In June, Japan liberalized short-term Euro-yen lending by Japanese banks, by abolishing the regulation limiting to trade-related transactions such lending with a maturity of one year or less. Norway in April announced that authorization would be granted for the establishment of foreign exchange brokerage firms to handle spot and for- ward contracts and foreign currency deposits; pre- viously, foreign exchange transactions in Norway were permitted to be carried out exclusively by banks. In March South Africa increased the overall limit set for banks in respect of cash balances held abroad from US$300 million to US$600 million. Several developing countries liberalized the reg- ulations governing international banking operations and the use of nonresident accounts. In March Ban- gladesh permitted authorized dealers to grant loans and advances in domestic currency to manufactur- ing companies incorporated in Bangladesh with foreign equity participation, subject to the observ- ance of the local borrowing entitlement of the firm in question. In January Cyprus raised the maximum amount that could be released from blocked ac- counts, from £C 1,000 to £C 5,000. In April Egypt allowed exporters of goods and nonfactor services to retain in foreign exchange retention accounts the full amount of their foreign exchange receipts; rules on the use of such accounts were also liberalized. Greece in June allowed its citizens to open time- deposit accounts in foreign currencies without stat- ing the origin of the funds, and in December Jamaica granted permission for commercial banks to accept deposits in foreign currency. In April Malaysia removed the limitation on access to do- mestic credit by companies in Malaysia that are controlled by nonresidents; previously, such bor- rowing was limited to the amount of shareholders' paid-up capital. Commercial banks were also per- mitted to approve payments to nonresident accounts without limits; previously, credits to these accounts without prior approval were limited to M$2 million. Morocco in April raised permissible interest rates on deposits in convertible dirham, and in June raised the ceiling on payments in Morocco from suspense or capital accounts. Zaire, in September, as part of broad exchange liberalization, allowed authorized banks to open three new forms of non- resident foreign currency accounts, in addition to the existing accounts; these are nonresident con- vertible accounts, nonresident ordinary accounts, and nonresident special accounts. All nonresident 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS foreign currency accounts are noninterest-bearing, and sight deposits and overdrafts are not permitted. Nonresident convertible accounts and nonresident special accounts may be opened without the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire at any authorized commercial bank. With a few exceptions, the open- ing of nonresident ordinary accounts requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire. During the period under review, several indus- trial countries tightened regulations governing capital flows through the banking system. In Jan- uary Austria introduced a regulation specifying that foreign currency credits to nonresidents by Austrian banks in 1983 should not be more than 15 percent of such credits outstanding at the end of 1982. In February, Japan issued guidelines with regard to overseas lending by Japanese banks; these included matching requirements for funds procurement, lim- its on foreign currency assets of each bank in rela- tion to its equity and reserves, and the establish- ment of a special reserve for banks to provide for possible loan loss overseas. In March, the minimum capital requirement for branches of foreign banks in Spain was increased from Ptas 750 million to Ptas 2 billion. A few developing countries introduced controls or imposed restrictions with respect to capital flows through the banking system. In October Argentina required that the maturity of all fixed-term deposits in foreign exchange maturing in the period through December 4, 1983 be extended for 60 days beyond the original maturity date, and that most demand deposits in foreign exchange be frozen until De- cember 4, 1983; deposits of international organiza- tions, embassies, consulates, and legations, or their staff, were exempted. In May flotation of negoti- able instruments (e.g., certificates of deposit) by the foreign branches of domestic banks was made subject to prior approval in the Philippines. In addi- tion, in September, renewal of maturing foreign exchange swap contracts with the Central Bank were made subject to the following approval proce- dures: (a) when the official guiding rate on the date of renewal of the swap is higher than the original forward rate, the bank involved in the swap may automatically enter into an offsetting arrangement with the Central Bank for the difference between the official reference rate and the original forward rate plus Vs of 1 percent on subject differentials; (b) the foreign exchange differentials including the in- terest earned shall be carried over on subsequent renewals of the swap contract up to its final matu- rity; and (c) the swap contract for the renewal will specify both the forward rate, as normally deter- 42 mined, and the effective forward rate. In October the Philippines subjected to approval remittances of foreign exchange for repayments to foreign banks and financial institutions of principal on all foreign obligations maturing between October 17, 1983 and January 16, 1984. In January Saudi Arabia pro- hibited domestic banks from inviting foreign banks to participate in riyal-denominated syndicated transactions inside or outside Saudi Arabia without the prior approval of the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. In addition, participation by domestic banks in riyal-denominated transactions arranged abroad, or transactions denominated in foreign cur- rency arranged for nonresidents, was made subject to the prior approval of the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. In January all outward remittances from airline external accounts in respect of passenger and freight collections were made subject to prior ap- proval in Sri Lanka. In March Sudan abolished the facility for convertible currency accounts in Sudan- ese pounds. In October the maintenance of existing, and the opening of new foreign exchange accounts abroad, by residents were subjected to approval by Zaire. In principle, approval is granted only if they are covered by international credit agreements or bilateral conventions between the Government of Zaire and foreign partners. The accounts may be sight or time deposits but must bear interest. Several industrial and developing countries in- . troduced measures in the area of portfolio invest- ment in the period under review. Among the num- ber of liberalizing measures taken by industrial countries, Australia, in December removed all ex- change control requirements in relation to borrow- ing and capital raising in, and the repatriation of capital from, Australia by nonresidents. Prior ap- proval of borrowing agreements with nonresidents is no longer required except where agreements are with residents of countries designated for tax screening purposes. However, drawdowns of bor- rowings for all nonresidents need approval. Con- trols were also lifted on interest-bearing invest- ments by nonresidents (with the exception of foreign governments, government agencies and foreign banks, including central banks). In addi- tion, exchange control requirements were abolished for the issue of guarantees by residents in favor of nonresidents. Exchange control approval is no longer required for underwriting and sub- underwriting of foreign issues by residents except where residents of countries designated for tax screening purposes are involved. Approval of guarantees provided to Australian residents by non- residents is subject to any necessary clearance ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES under the Government's foreign investment policy. In May, Belgium and Luxembourg granted authori- zation for banks to sell in the official market foreign exchange acquired in the financial market, thus offering the option to channel foreign exchange capital inflows through the official market. In May, Denmark raised the limit beyond which individual transactions and remittances become subject to ex- change regulations from DKr 10,000 to DKr 25,000. Residents were permitted to acquire not only bonds issued by international organizations, but also bonds listed on a stock exchange; nonresi- dents were permitted to acquire (a) government bonds (excluding treasury bills), (b) shares in joint stock and private companies not quoted on the stock exchange, and (c) private mortgage deeds with a residual maturity exceeding five years. Authoriza- tion was also granted for residents who were regis- tered as liable for value-added tax or for withhold- ing of employees' income tax to borrow abroad without restriction, provided that the maturity of such loans was at least five years. Furthermore, the limit of DKr 250,000, which restricted residents' purchases abroad of real estate for noncommercial purposes, was abolished. The limit for loans to and from a family member as well as residents' loans to subsidiary companies abroad was raised from DKr 200,000 to DKr 500,000 for each calendar year. In December Finland raised the maximum amount of foreign exchange allowed for each per- son emigrating from Finland and the limit on the purchase of foreign exchange for the purchase of a second residence abroad. In March France raised the limit applicable to prior authorization of exter- nal borrowings by residents, other than for trade purposes, from F 10 million to F 50 million. In December, Italy exempted certain direct invest- ments abroad by industrial companies and banks from the 50 percent noninterest-bearing deposit re- quirement; other cases would also be considered to have been tacitly exempted if the authorities did not respond to the application within fourteen days. Japan, in late March, permitted domestic sales to Japanese residents of commercial paper and negoti- able certificates of deposit issued abroad, and in April both banks and securities companies started to deal in these financial assets. Funds thus raised could be used by the subsidiary's parent bank for lending abroad. In Ju ly the Netherlands removed restrictions on capital inflows with maturities of less than two years. Foreign borrowing by nonbank residents from nonresidents exceeding f. 500,000 a year, and the issuance and sale by nonbank resi- dents of domestic debentures (not listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange), were no longer sub- ject to review. In addition, resident enterprises were no longer required to obtain permission for longer- term borrowing abroad for domestic use. Portugal in September raised the maximum amount of pri- vate capital transactions that may be effected with- out the approval of the Minister of Finance from Esc 200 million to Esc 500 million. In February South Africa ceased to designate as "financial rand" local proceeds of sales of quoted and unquoted South African securities, real estate, and other equity investments held by nonresidents (with the exception of expatriates, who remain subject to restrictions on the same basis as in the past). Such proceeds are now allowed to be transferred freely from South Africa through normal banking chan- nels at the prevailing unitary rate of exchange for the rand and, may also be freely used in the Rand Monetary Area by nonresidents for investment or other purposes. In May, Sweden abolished the regulation prohibiting local governments and local government-owned companies from obtaining foreign loans directly from abroad or via Swedish banks. In November Switzerland permitted foreign export credit agencies to issue bonds in the form of either public issues or private placements in Swit- zerland, provided that borrowing entities did not violate OECD guidelines relating to officially guaranteed export credits. Several developing countries liberalized controls on portfolio investment. As an exception to a pro- hibition on the specification of foreign currency clauses in transactions between residents, Bolivia in September permitted loans from multilateral and bilateral international institutions and repayable in foreign currency to be re-lent domestically, either in the original currency or on the basis of mainte- nance-of-value clauses. Brazil in January raised the maximum amount of exchange transactions on Brazilian securities exchanges that may be effected without the intervention of authorized brokerage houses, from the equivalent of US$1,000 to the equivalent of US$20,000. Colombia in April added car-assembly enterprises to the list of enterprises that were permitted to borrow abroad for financing investment, up to a maximum of US$50 million for each enterprise. In September private entities operating in the agricultural, mining, manufactur- ing, and service sectors were also permitted to ob- tain loans from abroad for financing working capital or fixed investment, provided that such loans had a maturity of at least three years, and at least a one-year grace period, and that the lending rates did not exceed 2.5 percent over LIBOR or 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS U.S. prime rates. In May India introduced several modifications in regulations governing portfolio in- vestment in India by nonresidents. Designated banks were permitted to purchase equity shares and convertible debentures from nonresidents, without specific Reserve Bank approval, for each transac- tion up to an overall ceiling of (a) 5 percent of the total paid-up equity capital of the company, and (b) 5 percent of the total paid-up value of each series of convertible debentures issued by the com- panies. These overall ceilings were applied to pur- chases both with and without repatriation benefits, but equity shares acquired on conversion of deben- tures were not included in the ceilings. Purchases in excess of these ceilings were subject to the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. In addition, in July sales and transfer of shares of Indian companies held by nonresident Indians on a nonrepatriation basis to nonresident or resident Indians through a recognized stock exchange were no longer required to be approved by the Reserve Bank. In February Lesotho and Swaziland abolished the financial rand market. In June Pakistan permitted its nationals residing outside the country to repatriate proceeds of principal and capital gains on securities they had in Pakistan, provided that these securities were held for not less than one year. During 1983 only a few industrial countries took measures which tended to restrict outflows and in- flows of portfolio investment. In September Swit- zerland ceased to grant authorization for foreign export credit agencies to place public issues on the Swiss bond market. Private placements and direct credits from banks, however, continued to be per- mitted under certain conditions. Spain in February extended for a period of 12 months the suspension of a 1979 decree which liberalized outward port- folio investments; thus prior authorization contin- ued to be required to transfer funds abroad for investments in foreign bonds and other financial instruments. A few developing countries tightened the con- trols and intensified restrictions on portfolio invest- ment. In Argentina, the Central Bank issued regu- lations in June providing for the compulsory rescheduling of private sector loans that were covered either by a swap arrangement with the Central Bank or by an exchange rate guarantee issued by the Central Bank in 1982. Bolivia in September introduced a number of changes in the regulations governing foreign indebtedness: (a) all public sector institutions were required to obtain prior approval before entering into negotiations for any financing or refinancing with foreign entities; 44 and (b) foreign borrowing by private sector institu- tions or private individuals that would require offi- cial foreign exchange for servicing was made sub- ject to approval. Regulations governing foreign direct investments were modified in several developed and developing countries, on balance, toward liberalization. In May Denmark raised the limit on direct investments in Denmark by nonresidents from DKr 2 million to DKr 5 million a calendar year, and the limit on direct investment abroad by residents from DKr 500,000 to DKr 2 million; in March Sweden eased restrictions on mining operations in Sweden by foreign companies. In January Ethiopia an- nounced a new foreign investment code, under which joint ventures were permitted between the Ethiopian public sector and foreign investors, with up to 49 percent ownership. Joint ventures, which cannot exceed 25 years in duration, were allowed in projects contributing to foreign exchange earnings, to employment, and to general economic and social development and were prohibited in the sectors of precious metals, public utilities, telecommunica- tions, banking and insurance, transport, and domes- tic trade. All applications for joint ventures were required to be approved, and a minimum of 25 per- cent of share capital was required to be paid before registration. Joint ventures were exempt from the income tax for five years in the case of new proj- ects, and for three years in the case of major exten- sions to existing projects. Imports of investment goods and spare parts for such ventures were made eligible for exemption from customs duties and other specified import levies. India in March provided the following additional facilities to encourage investment in India by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin and by companies owned at least 60 percent by them: (a) hospitals were included among eligible projects for direct investment in new issues with full repatriation ben- efits under specified schemes; (b) the Reserve Bank permitted Indian companies to appoint agents abroad and pay reasonable compensation to secure investments by nonresident Indians in new issues of shares and debentures; and (c) nonresident Indians were permitted to place funds in public limited companies (including government undertakings) in India with fu ll repatriation benefits, provided that deposits were made for three years and paid either out of remittances or from their nonresident (exter- nal) rupee or foreign currency accounts. In January Morocco announced a new industrial investment code that provided for full foreign ownership of Moroccan companies and for liberalized capital re- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES patriation requirements, and that introduced fiscal incentives for foreign investments in Morocco. In June Oman promulgated a new foreign investment law, under which joint ventures would be offered a five-year tax holiday, renewable for an additional period of five years under certain conditions. In addition, the Oman Development Bank was autho- rized to make medium- and long-term loans at pre- ferential interest rates for project financing in the petroleum, agricultural, fisheries, and mineral sec- tors and to provide assistance in preinvestment re- search. Foreign investment would no longer be per- mitted in trade and services but would be encouraged to concentrate on large production or manufacturing projects. The regulations governing foreign direct invest- ments were tightened in two developing countries. In May Ecuador required that foreign exchange from direct foreign investment be surrendered in the official exchange market. In May Maldives re- quired all foreign investors to provide at least 75 percent of their capital investment from abroad either in the form of freely usable currencies or in the form of capital goods financed from abroad. A number of countries introduced fiscal and monetary measures having an indirect impact on international banking operations and capital flows. Switzerland in February ceased to withhold taxes on interest earnings from Swiss fiduciary accounts held by both Swiss nationals and foreigners. Among the developing countries, Chile imposed in January a 5 percent reserve deposit requirement on all foreign loans with an average maturity of less than 72 months unless they were contracted to fi- nance imports of capital goods authorized by the Central Bank; in November the coverage of the 5 percent deposit requirement was reduced to loans with an average maturity of 60 months. Chile in July introduced an exchange guarantee for foreign borrowing intended to refinance amortization pay- ments and for new loans to enterprises operating in the nontrade sector, subject to a cumulative limit of US$750 million. In January, the People's Republic of China announced a provision whereby for inter- est or leasing fees less the value of equipment paid abroad under credit, trade, and leasing agreements entered into with Chinese companies and enter- prises during the period 1983-85, income tax is to be levied at the reduced rate of 10 percent (half of the normal rate) during the validity of these agree- ments, and interest that pertains to export credits is entitled to income tax exemption. For fees paid to foreign businessmen for special technology in such fields as agriculture, animal husbandry, research, energy, communications, transport, environment protection, and the development of important tech- niques, income tax is to be levied at the reduced rate of 10 percent (half of the normal rate), and fees that pertain to advanced technology obtained with favorable terms are entitled to income tax exemp- tion. In November Fiji introduced tax concessions on investments in the tourist industry. Investment allowances similar to those granted to the hotel industry were granted to investments in projects supportive of the tourist industry when large outlays were involved. Under the 1983/84 budget, India introduced fiscal concessions for investments by nonresident Indians in shares issued by Indian com- panies, deposits with public limited Indian compa- nies, units of the Unit Trust of India, securities issued by the Central Government of India, and other assets specified by the Central Government of India. Income and long-term capital gains from these assets were made taxable at a flat rate of 20 percent, plus a surcharge of 2.5 percent. Nonres- ident Indians were given the option of paying the tax at normal rates applicable to resident taxpayers if they were more favorable. These investments were also exempted from wealth and gift taxes. Singapore announced in April that all income ac- crued within five years by Asian Currency Units (ACUs) based in Singapore from loans syndicated in Singapore would be exempted from the 10 per- cent income tax provided that: (a) the entity serving as lead manager was an ACU based in Singapore (when two or more are lead managers, at least one half of the number should be financial institutions in Singapore); (b) the Ministry of Finance was satis- fied that the bulk of the syndication process had been done in Singapore; (c) at least three lenders were involved; and (d) the loan involved was an offshore loan. In addition, the tax levied on the fees earned by ACUs from the provision of management services in loan transactions was reduced from 40 percent to 10 percent. In January Thailand ex- tended the exemption of withholding tax on interest payments for foreign loans, which was originally scheduled to be eliminated by December 31, 1982, to June 30, 1983 for loans with maturities of more than 12 months; in July the withholding tax exemp- tion was further extended to June 30, 1984 foreign loans with maturities of more than 24 months. Gold New regulations concerning transactions in gold were introduced by several member countries. In 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE A R R A N G EM E N TS AND E X C H A N GE RESTR ICT IONS the People's Republic of Ch ina, the State Council issued in June new regulations governing holdings of, and transactions in, gold. Chile introduced in March a regulation limiting trade in gold to autho- rized houses; from J u l y, however, transactions in gold between private individuals were permitted as long as they were not carried out in a customary manner. In the Dominican Republic, the Central Bank authorized in Ju ly the sale of domestically mined gold for industrial activities through specified channels. In April Egypt authorized each arriving and departing traveler to carry jewe l ry of a value up to LE 500. In Ghana the previous export tax on gold assessed per troy ounce was changed to an ad valorem basis in Apr i l, w i th the rate set at 20 percent. The Guyana Gold Board announced in September that it would pay local gold miners a domestic currency price wh ich, when compared with the world market price of gold in foreign exchange, would imply an exchange rate of G$4.9 = US$1. The foreign exchange earned by the Gold Board from such operations would be converted by the central bank at the rate of US$1 = G$5.50. In Iraq the Central Bank mono- poly on gold importation was terminated in Augus t, and permission was granted for Iraqi citizens to import gold. In addition, all imports of unworked and ornamental gold in excess of 250 grams were made subject to a duty of 35 percent. South Africa commenced in September the practice whereby the South African Reserve Bank wou ld pay the gold mines in U .S. dollars for gold supplied to the bank. In the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, the max imum quan t i ty of gold ornaments that departing female residents could take out of the country was doubled in February to 20 tolas. IV. Main Developments in Regional Arrangements Several measures to foster regional cooperation were taken in 1983. The European Commun i ty (EC)9 entered into two new cooperation agree- ments, continued negotiations on the accession of Portugal and Spain to the EC, and embarked on negotiations for a third Lome Convention w i th the African, Caribbean, and Pacific States. The Central African states signed a treaty to initiate a new eco- nomic commun i ty, and three other regional ar- rangements in Africa were expanded. On the Asian subcontinent, the first steps were taken toward forming a common market, and in east Asia the liberalization of interregional trade flows contin- ued. The six states of the Gulf Cooperation Council implemented steps to strengthen their trade l inks. The Caribbean Commun i ty enlarged its member- ship, and the East Caribbean states reinforced the ir financial ties by forming a regional central bank. Negotiations continued on the accession of Por- tugal and Spain to the EC. Af ter some 40 nego- tiating sessions w i th each candidate coun t ry, this process was almost completed in several areas: transport, regional po l icy, econom ic, and f i n a n c i al questions, capital movements, taxa t ion, harmoni- zation of laws, and the right of establishment for private citizens. Negotiations w i th Portugal were substantially completed on a customs un ion for in- 9Be lg ium, Denmark, France, the Federal Repub l ic of Ger- many, Greece, Ire land, I t a ly, Luxembou rg, the Ne the r land s, and the Un i ted Kingdom. 46 dustrial goods, the European Coal and Steel Com- mun i ty (ECSC), participation in the European Atomic Energy Commun i ty (EURATOM ), and exter- nal trade. In the eleventh through fifteenth ministe- rial meetings held in the course of 1983 to negotiate Portugal's accession, substantial progress was made in the main outstanding areas: agriculture, fisheries, and social affairs. The fifteenth ministe- rial meeting on April 26 concluded negotiations between Spain and the EC on textiles and on quan- titative restrictions concerning EC imports to Spain. At the eighteenth ministerial meeting on December 19, agreement was reached on Spain's participation in EURATOM. A new cooperation agreement between the EC and Yugoslavia entered into force on April 1. The agreement is for an unlimited period, and covers trade, financial aid, and cooperation in indus try, science and technology, energy, agriculture, trans- port, env ironmen t, and tour ism. The protocol on f inanc ial cooperation between the EC and Tunisia entered into force on June 1; the EC w i ll provide aid to Tunisia in the period to October 31, 1986. The second financial protocols between the EC and Cyprus and Israel were signed in December and October, respectively. The protocols provide for Community aid through December 31, 1988 for Cyprus, and through October 31, 1986 for Israel. In J u l y, the EC and Cyprus signed a protocol on trade arrangements, and in November the existing special trade arrangements applied by the EC to Malta were ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN REG IONAL ARRANGEMENTS extended until June 30, 1984, pending the comple- tion of ongoing negotiations. The Council of Ministers of the African, Carib- bean, and Pacific States (ACP)10 and the EC held their eighth meeting in Brussels in May to discuss the operations of the second Lome Convention. Discussions continued on STABEX (the EC's export shortfall compensatory financing scheme)—in par- ticular, on the shortfall in resources for 1980 and 1981, and on the new products that could be added during the life of Lome II. Talks were also held on the sugar protocol, on agricultural and cultural cooperation, and on the arrangements for importa- tion of certain ACP products by the EC. Negotia- tions for the conclusion of a successor convention to Lome II, which expires on February 28, 1985, commenced on October 6 and 7 in Luxembourg. Angola and Mozambique, having declared that they are ready to accede to Lome III, are participants in the negotiations. A framework agreement for economic coopera- tion between the EC and the Andean Pact coun- tries11 was signed in Colombia on December 17. This nonpreferential agreement, aimed at tightening commercial and economic links between enter- prises in the two regions, will run for five years. In addition, the two parties will grant each other most- favored-nation status under the GATT. The fourth ministerial meeting between the EC and the Associ- ation of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN)12 was held in Bangkok in March to discuss progress made in projects undertaken under the aegis of the EC- ASEAN cooperation agreement signed in 1980. Discussions continued at the ambassadorial level in October in Brussels, where the two delegations expressed their hope that the Common Fund, a key 10The 63 ACP states associated with the EC are divided into the following categories by Lome II: (1) the least developed countries —Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Djibouti, Dominica, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kiribati, Lesotho, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Rwanda, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, Sao Tom£ and Prin- cipe, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Tuvalu, Uganda, Upper Volta, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa; (2) the island and landlocked countries —Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Bar- bados, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Jamaica, Madagascar, Mauritius, Papua New Guinea, St. Vincent and Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, Vanuatu, Zaire, Zambia, and Zim- babwe; (3) others—Belize, Cameroon, Congo, Gabon, Ghana, Guyana, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Liberia, Nigeria, Senegal, and Suriname. 11 The members of the Andean Pact are Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela. 1 Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand. element of the Integrated Program, would become operational soon. The annual (or, in some instances, biannual) meetings of the joint committees responsible for the managment of the free-trade agreements between the EEC and EFT A countries13 were held in April, May, June, and December. The final tariff cuts scheduled in the free trade arrangements signed by the EC and EFTA countries in 1972 came into effect at the end of 1983, with the result that trade in all types of industrial goods (and in some pro- cessed agricultural foodstuffs) became free of im- port duties from January 1, 1984. The EC-China joint committee met in Beijing on November 8 and 9. The two parties agreed that most of the operations already under way should be pursued and that their trade agreement should be extended by a year, in accordance with the relevant provisions. On May 30-31, the EC-India Joint Commission agreed to continue efforts to reduce India's trade deficit with the Community and adopted a program to promote India's trade. The third meeting of the EC-Romania joint committee was held on December 2-3; the parties agreed to take steps to carry out the objectives of their 1980 trade agreement. The Economic Community of West African States (EcowAS)14 held its sixth annual summit conference on May 28-30 at Conakry, Guinea. The summit adopted a resolution accepting the imple- mentation of a single trade liberalization scheme for industrial products originating from member states of the Community. In doing so, it asked the mem- ber states of the West African Economic Commu- nity (WAEC)15 and those of the Mano River Union16 to merge their aims with those of ECOWAS to facilitate a single customs union, which the Lagos Plan of Action envisages to be in place by the year 2000. A resolution relating to the creation of a single monetary zone was also adopted; it provided a mandate for the necessary studies for the creation of such a zone, as well as for any improvements in monetary and payments ar- rangements which would further promote subre- gional trade. 13Austria, Iceland, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, and Switzer- land; Finland is an associate member. 14The members of ECOWAS are Benin, Cape Verde, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo, and Upper Volta. 15The members are Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta. 16Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS AND EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS The fifth meeting of the heads of state of the West African Monetary Union (WAMU)17 was held in Niamey, Niger, on October 30-31, and took the decision to admit Mali into the WAMU. Issues of common interest were also discussed, and it was noted that work had progressed on the economic and financial integration of member countries. The heads of state of the WAEC met on the same occa- sion to discuss the needs of the populations of member countries, in particular for water resources and transport systems. On October 19, a treaty was signed in Libreville, Gabon, setting up the Economic Community of the States of Central Africa (ECSCA).18 The economic grouping is intended to be a Central African equiva- lent of ECOWAS. It plans the progressive harmoni- zation of the member economies, with a view to eventually forming a common market and monetary union. At the June meeting of the heads of state of the Gambia River Development Organization (OMVG),19 Guinea-Bissau was admitted as a member, and the final communique called for the rapid integration of Guinea-Bissau's programs with those of the OMVG. During the year, Rwanda joined the Preferential Trade Area of Eastern and Southern African States (PTA).20 The nine-nation Niger Basin Authority (NBA)21 met in Conakry in late May. The summit prepared guidelines for achieving the aims of the organiza- tion, and instructed the executive secretariat to strengthen cooperation with other regional and sub- regional bodies for better coordination of their pro- grams of action. At a September meeting of the leaders of the Mano River Union, Guinea called for the establishment of a common currency for mem- ber states. The heads of state of the Central African Cus- toms and Economic Union (UDEAC)22 met on De- cember 19-20 in Bangui, Central African Republic, to discuss issues of mutual importance. The summit readmitted Chad, and agreed to the formal acces- sion of Equatorial Guinea to the Union. It also 17Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 18Angola, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, and Zaire. Angola did not sign the treaty. 19Senegal, The Gambia, and Guinea-Bissau. 20Angola, Botswana, Comoros, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Rwanda, Seychelles, Somalia, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. 21 Benin, Cameroon, Chad, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Mali, Ni- ger, Nigeria, and Upper Volta. 22Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. 48 urged the Bank of Central African States (BEAC)23 to accelerate its deliberations on the admission of Equatorial Guinea to BEAC. At an earlier BEAC meeting in Paris in December, the decision to admit Equatorial Guinea had been postponed to a later date. At the annual meeting of the African Devel- opment Bank (AfDB)24 in Nairobi, Kenya, during May 11-14, India, Portugal, and Saudi Arabia were admitted as nonregional members, subject to the completion of all the necessary formalities. The meeting also agreed to an accord of cooperation with Brazil. During the term of 1983, Austria, Belgium, and the United Kingdom completed the ratification procedures for membership of the AfDB, thereby bringing the total number of nonre- gional stockholders to 18. The Closer Economic Relations (CER) trade agreement between Australia and New Zealand, which supersedes the 1966 New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), came into force on January 1, 1983. Except for a limited number of items, the new agreement provides for the phased elimination of all tariffs between the two countries within a 1-5 year period, depending on initial tariff levels, and of all quantitative import restrictions and tariff quotas on Trans-Tasman trade by 1995. In respect of the latter, intercountry access limits for each grouping of products will be increased by 15 percent a year in real terms until the access limit reaches $NZ 1 million, and thereafter at an annual rate of 10 percent in real terms. The agreement also contains provisions pertaining, inter alia, to export incentives, agricultural support and stabilization measures, and government purchases. Under the agreement, both countries retain the freedom to conduct their own trade policies with third countries. ASEAN member countries continued to expand the scope of their Preferential Trading Arrangement during 1983. At the end of the year, nearly 19,000 23Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, and Gabon. 24Regional member countries: Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Upper Volta, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe. Nonregional member countries: Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, Finland, France, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Korea, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States, and Yugoslavia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS items were subject to preferential tariff cuts of be- tween 20 and 25 percent under the agreement, com- pared with some 6,600 such items at the end of 1981. In addition, at the annual meeting of ASEAN economic ministers in Bangkok in October, it was decided to increase the margin of preferences for food and nonfood items already subject to the ar- rangement in stages, to a maximum of 50 percent by March 19, 1984. The margin of preferences for ASEAN industrial-project products was set at 50 percent. The ministers also reached agreement on ASEAN Industrial Joint Ventures (AIJV); the agreement was signed in Jakarta, Indonesia, on November 7, 1983. Under the agreement, an AIJV should involve private sector cooperation between at least two ASEAN countries and have, in most circumstances, a minimum ASEAN ownership of 51 percent. Nations participating in the AIJV are required to extend to AIJV products a minimum 50 percent margin of tariff preference, which is to last for four years, during which any other ASEAN member may join the AIJV. After the four-year waiver period, any entity in any ASEAN country which produces the AIJV item will receive the same margin of tariff preference for that item as granted by the participating AIJV countries; this last provision is nonreciprocal. At its meeting in Jakarta on August 15, the ASEAN Permanent Committee approved the application of Brunei to join ASEAN in 1984, thereby becoming its sixth member. In New Delhi, the foreign ministers of Bangla- desh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka signed a pact in August to launch a program of regional cooperation to accelerate eco- nomic growth and social progress. The program includes provisions for cooperation agriculture, rural development, transport, and postal services. It has a common market among its member nations as its eventual aim. At the Twenty-Third Conference of the South Pacific Commission (SPC)25 in October in Saipan, Northern Mariana Islands, 11 new members were admitted to the Commission: American Samoa, the Federated States of Micronesia, French Polynesia, Guam, the Republic of the Marshalls, New Cale- donia, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Belau, the Pitcairn Islands, Tokelau, and Wallis 25Members are American Samoa, Australia, Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, France, French Polynesia, Guam, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, New Caledonia, New Zealand, Niue, Northern Mariana Islands, Republic of Belau, Papua New Guinea, Pitcairn Islands, Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu, United Kingdom, United States, Vanuatu, Wallis and Futuna, and Western Samoa. and Futuna. The Conference also reviewed the Commission's work program for technical assist- ance to member states, particularly with respect to food and materials and the development of marine resources. Discussion of merging the SPC and the South Pacific Forum26 into a single regional organ- ization was postponed, pending further study. On this latter matter, the South Pacific Forum had ar- rived at the same conclusion at its fourteenth meet- ing of the heads of government held in Canberra, Australia, from August 29-30. The first phase of the unified economic agree- ment, approved by the heads of state of the mem- bers of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC)27 in November 1981, went into effect on March 1, 1983. Intramember customs duties were abolished on agricultural, manufactured, and animal prod- ucts, provided that the goods satisfied a minimum local value-added content criterion. In addition, art- icles in transit between member states became ex- empt from taxes, ships from member states ob- tained free access to each other's port, and certain groups of GCC professionals and workers became eligible to practice in any of the member states. The May meeting of the GCC finance ministers ap- proved the imposition of a uniform customs levy of 4—20 percent on non-GCC imports from Septem- ber 1. Four of the member states have acted under the decision. On April 17-19 the annual meeting of the Arab Monetary Fund (AMF)28 took the decision to dou- ble the AMF's capital. The increase is to be sub- scribed by AMF member countries in five annual installments. At a concurrent meeting of the Arab Bank of Economic Development in Africa (BADEA)29 a new five-year program of support for non-Arab Africa was approved. BADEA doubled its project-share ceiling to 80 percent for projects valued at less than US$5 million; individual project commitments may rise to US$15 million in excep- tional cases. 26Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, New Zea- land, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa. The Federated States of Micronesia have observer status. 27Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates. 28Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Pales- tine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Re- public, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, Yemen Arab Republic, and People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. The membership of Egypt has been suspended since 1979. 29Algeria, Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Pales- tine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates. 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE A R R A N G EM E N TS AND EX CHANGE RESTR ICT IONS Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, on Ju ly 4 —8. The summ it admitted the Bahamas as the thirteenth member of the Commun i ty. The participants further agreed to revive the Caribbean Multilateral Clear- ing Facility, to adopt a regional energy action p lan, and to request the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)33 to undertake a study to iden t i fy, evaluate, and recommend measures wh ich would maximize the production, emp loymen t, and foreign exchange earnings of the CARICOM member countries. A de- cision on the accession of the Dominican Republic to CARICOM was deferred, pending further discus- sions. At the same meeting, the heads of state of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS)34 signed an agreement for the conversion of the East Caribbean Currency Authority into the East Carib- bean Central Bank (ECCB). The ECCB is based in St. Kitts, and came into fu ll operation on October 1. On J u ly 28, the U .S. Congress passed the Carib- bean Basin Economic Recovery Act. Passage of the bill allows for the implementation on the part of the United States of the Caribbean Basin Initiative (CBI), which provides for du ty-free access, on a unilateral basis, for virtually all goods from the Caribbean area. Previously, in 1982, the U .S. Con- gress had appropriated a fund of US$350 million under the CBI for emergency balance of payments assistance to Caribbean nations. Final disburse- ments from the fund were effected in 1983. 3 3I ts members are the CARICOM states, Angu i l la, British V irg in Is lands, Canada, Colombia, Cayman Is lands, Turks and Caicos Is lands, Un i ted K ingdom, and Venezue la. Angu i l la, British V i rg in Is lands, Cayman Is lands, Montserrat, and Turks and Caicos Islands are together equ iva lent to one member. 3 4An t igua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, St. Kitts- Nev is, St. Luc ia, and St. V incent and Grenadines. At the f i f th Extraordinary Conference on Eva lua- tion and Convergence in Montevideo, U rugu ay, which ended on May 30, the non-Andean mem- bers30 of the Latin American Integration Associa- tion; (LA IA )31 concluded their renegotiations of trade and tariff preferences originally agreed to under the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA). Brazil and Mexico decided to separate themselves from the mu l t i la teral arrangements sub- scribed to by the non-Andean LAIA members and to seek bilateral links between both themselves and the other non-Andean LAIA countries. On May 12, the LAIA members agreed to ma in ta in, with effect from May 1, the pre-existing system of trade prefer- ences negotiated under LAFTA. The heads of state of the Andean Pact met in Caracas, Venezuela, on Ju ly 25, to discuss the economic and f inanc ial problems of concern to member states. They undertook to avoid new re- strictions on interregional trade and to eliminate existing restrictions w i th a view to accelerating the formation of an integrated regional market. They also undertook to study the creation of the "peso ordino," to which member currencies would be linked and wh ich would serve as a stabilizing factor for regional trade and f inanc ial flows. Prior to the Caracas meeting, two members of the Pact had announced the l i f t ing of protectionist measures that had threatened to curtail trade w i th in the region. At the December 17 summit of the Andean Pact heads of state in Colombia, it was announced that discus- sions relating to Panama's accession to the Pact would be started. The heads of government of the Caribbean Com- mun i ty and Common Market (CAR ICOM )32 met in 30 A rgen t ina, B raz i l, Ch i le, Mexico, Paraguay, and U ruguay. 3'A r g e n t i n a, Bo l iv ia, Braz i l, Ch i le, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela. There are three observer countries: El Salvador, Hondu ras, and Spa in. 3 2An t igua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Be l ize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Mon tserra t, St. K i t ts- Nev is, St. Luc ia, St. V incent and Grenad ines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 50 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PART TWO ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two Part Two gives a detailed description of the exchange and trade system of ind iv idual member countries, inc lud- ing a nonmetropolitan territory (Hong Kong), for wh ich the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement, and the Netherlands Antilles, which is a part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The exchange and trade system of one other country, wh ich is not a member of the Fund, is also described. In general, the description relates to the exchange and trade systems as at the end of 1983, but in appropriate cases reference is made to s ign if icant developments that took place early in 1984. A standardized approach has been followed, under which the description of each system is broken down into similar headings, and the coverage for each country includes a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes dur ing 1983. The description of the restrictive system is not necessarily confined to those aspects invo lv ing exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Re- ports, questions of definition and jur isd ic t ion have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restrictive systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the coverage extends to such features as import licensing, advance deposit requirements, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. S im i lar ly, the section "Changes During 1983" includes references to certain devel- opments that may have a direct impact on international transactions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as major revisions of import tar iffs or developments relating to regional cooperation. The description given in the section Exchange Ar- rangement is in line with the notification of exchange arrangements that member countries have furn ished to the Fund under A r t ic le IV, Section 2(a). The s t r u c t u re of exchange markets is described, and the off ic ial exchange rate is given. The rates quoted are those effective on December 31, 1983, unless stated otherwise. Under Administration of Control, some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to wh ich their powers are delegated for working purposes. The section on Prescription of Currency describes the requirements affecting the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions w i th other coun- tries. Where a country has concluded payments agree- ments with other countries, the terms of these agree- ments often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the coun- tries concerned. The countries w i th wh ich bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. Under Nonresident Accounts, a description is given of the manner in which the country treats accounts, if any, maintained in its currency by account holders who are not regarded as resident in that coun try, and the fac i l i t ies and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types are also described. In the section on Imports and Import Payments, import licensing requirements are described br ief ly, and details are given of other requirements imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license" indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transac- tions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing requirements, in contrast to an " ind iv idual license," which may be given either free ly, or restric- tively, according to administrative decisions. Under Payments for Invisibles, the procedures for permitting payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles are described br ief ly, together w i th any l im i ta- tions on the export of foreign and domestic bank notes. For some countries that do not impose l im i ta t ions on payments for invisibles, th is section is combined w i th the section on Proceeds from Inv is ib les (see below). Export licensing requirements and procedures are described under Exports and Export Proceeds, w i th an outline of the requirements that may be imposed on the handling of proceeds from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" indicates that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell any foreign exchange proceeds in return for local currency, usua l ly at the official rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for th is purpose. In some countries there is a requirement that such exchange or part thereof be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions gov- erning exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the import of foreign and domestic bank notes are described. The coverage under Capital describes the special arrangements or limitations attached to international capital movements. Where regulations on foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are usua l ly dealt w i th in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. The section on Gold gives a summary of the principal regulations that govern the holding, negotiation, import, and export of gold coin and gold in other forms. In this Report, references to "Taiwan" are to the Taiwan Province of Ch ina. 52 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN (Position on December 31, 1983} Exchange Arrangement The currency of Afghanistan is the A fghan i. Da Afghanistan Bank (the central bank) maintains an offi- cial rate applied to (a) foreign exchange proceeds from exports of natural gas, karakul, cotton, and wool; (b) transactions for government and authorized transac- tions for public enterprises; (c) certain foreign currency income earned in Afghanistan (see Proceeds from Invis- ibles, below); and (d) all transactions in accounting units specified under bilateral payments agreements. Transac- tions by Da Afghanistan Bank and the commercial banks in convertible exchange not subject to the official rate are undertaken at a separate operational rate more depre- ciated than the official rate. Both rates are defined in terms of the U .S. dollar and are flexible. Da Afghanistan Bank posts rates for deutsche mark, French francs, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, which reflect their value relative to the U .S. dollar in international markets and the local bazaar foreign ex- change market (see below). Da Afghanistan Bank charges commissions ranging from 0.10 percent to 0.375 percent on exchange transactions. Proceeds of raisin exports to the U .S .S .R. (other than those by agricultural cooperatives) that are sold to the Da Af- ghanistan Bank are subject to an exchange surcharge of 7 percent; the surcharge is refunded if the exporter should within one year buy back the foreign exchange to pay for imports from the U .S .S .R. Transactions which are not required to be effected with the banks may take place in the bazaar foreign exchange market, where the rates are more depreciated than those maintained by the banks. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are controlled by the Government through Da Afghanistan Bank. The control is facilitated by the existence of relatively large compa- nies specializing in the export of such commodities as karakul, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such commodities, with the exception that the export of cotton is reserved for four authorized companies. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghanistan has bilateral payments agreements1 must be made in bilateral accounting dollars in accordance w i th the procedures set forth in those agreements. The proceeds from exports of wool and cotton to other countries and of karakul to all countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. 'People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, and U .S .S .R. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license, but import transac- tions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. Imports of a few items (e .g ., some drugs, liquor, arms, and ammun i t ion) are prohibited on grounds of public policy or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e .g ., a few textiles and selected nonessential consumer goods) also is prohibited. There are no quan t i ta t ive restrictions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quantities (and sometimes prices) for com- modities to be traded. Most of the trade w i th bilateral agreement countries is carried out on a compensation basis, and usua l ly both imports and exports are arranged by the same trader; imports made against export pro- ceeds subject to surrender requirements ( i .e ., from natural gas, cotton, and wool) are carried out by the Government or government agencies, or the proceeds of such exports are allocated for servicing of the Govern- ment's external debt. The present customs tariff structure was promulgated in June 1974 and has since then been modified in the annual budgets. Actual tariff rates, ad valorem and specific, vary considerably. Ad valorem duties usually range between 20 percent and 35 percent. Payments for imports through the banking system to payments agreement countries may usua l ly be made only under letters of credit. Payments to other countries may be made under letters of credit, against bills for collec- t ion, or against an undertaking by the importer to import goods at least equivalent to the payment made through the banking system. Generally, a deposit of up to 40 percent of the c . i . f. value is required by banks from private enterprises upon opening of a letter of credit. Foreign exchange for payments for imports by the private sector has to be acquired in the bazaar market. Payments for Invisibles Tourists are permitted to take out up to US$2,000 or the equivalent in other foreign currencies. When foreign travel is for other purposes, the permissible amounts are determined by the appropriate authorities; in each case, permission from the central bank or one of the commer- cial banks is necessary for taking out foreign currency. Exchange for private travel has to be acquired in the bazaar market. The fee for a passport valid for one year is Af 20,000 for tourist travel and Af 1,000 to Af 2,500 for other types of travel. Export of foreign currency notes up to US$2,000 or its equivalent by travelers is permitted only if the foreign exchange has been bought from the banking system. Travelers are not allowed to take out more than Af 1,000 in domestic bank notes. 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (other than gold) are not subject to license, but export transactions must be registered. Exports of a few commodities (e .g ., opium and museum pieces) are prohibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Proceeds from exports of karakul to all countries, including payments agreement countries, are received in convertible curren- cies. Receipts from exports of natural gas, karaku l, cotton, and wool are subject to surrender requirements and are exchanged at the official rate. Other export receipts in convertible exchange are exchanged at the operational rate, but exporters may retain such exchange to pay for imports of tea, matches, soap, textiles, edible oils, and motor oils. Da Afghanistan Bank buys foreign exchange from exports to bilateral payments agreement countries, purchasing up to 50 percent of exports proceeds from individuals and up to 70 percent from commercial institutions. An export tax of Af 50 a ton is levied on exports of raisins to the People's Republic of China and Czechoslovakia. Proceeds from Invisibles Forty percent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees working in the Afghan public and private sectors must be converted into Afghan is at the official rate. Travelers entering Afghan is tan may not bring in more than Af 1,000 in Afghan bank notes. They may, however, bring in any amount in foreign currency but should declare it when entering the country if they intend to take out any residue upon departure. Capital Foreign investment in Afghan is tan requires prior approval and is administered by an Investment Commit- tee. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law of 1353 (issued on July 4, 1974) provides for a number of benefits, which include (1) income tax exemption for four years (six years outside Kabul province), beginning from the date of the first sales of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports (ma in ly of capital goods); (3) exemp- tion from taxes on dividends for four years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from personal income and corporate taxes on interest on foreign loans which constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties, provided that the products are permitted to be exported; and (6) mandatory purchases by government agencies and departments of their requirements from enterprises estab- lished under the law where prices of such products are not more than 15 percent higher than prices of foreign supplies. The law provides that foreign investment in Afghanistan can only take place through joint ventures, with foreign participation not exceeding 49 percent. It also establishes that an investment approved by the Investment Committee shall require no further license in order to operate in Afghanistan. Payments of principal and interest on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20 percent of the total registered capital. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell domes- tically gold in any form. Imports of gold are restricted. Exports of gold and silver in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Council of Ministers; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely. Customs duties are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1983 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 54 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Algeria is the Algerian Dinar. Daily buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, and other specified currencies1 are estab- lished by the Central Bank of Algeria on the basis of a f ixed relationship between the dinar and a composite of currencies. The currencies included in the composite and th e ir we igh ts take into account the relative importance of paymen t s, in c lud ing capital transactions, that are made in these currencies. A margin of DA 0.015 has been es tab l ished between the buy ing and selling rates of the dinar in terms of the U .S. dollar. An encouragement premium is granted on the conversion of convertible currencies repatriated by Algerians working abroad. The premium is adjusted so as to ensure that the exchange rate for such remittances is DA 1 = F 1. On each trip to Algeria, Algerians gainfully employed abroad are re- quired to exchange an amount of convertible currency equivalent to DA 700 at the exchange rate operative on the day the transaction takes place. They receive the incentive premium only on those conversions or transfers that are not required of them by law or regulation. The foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Central Bank; authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position with their foreign correspondents at the end of each day bu t, under certain conditions, they are permitted to hold cover for documentary credits outside Algeria. There are no forward exchange facilities. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank have general jurisdiction over exchange control. The Central Bank assists in the formulation of the exchange legisla- tion and regulations and is responsible for their applica- tion by the authorized banks. Authority over many exchange control procedures has been delegated to three commercial banks and the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses and global import quotas are issued by the Ministry of Commerce within the limits of a general import program. Import and export licenses require the visa of the Central Bank. The Societe Nationale pour la Recherche, la Production, le Trans- port, la Transformation et la Commercialisation des Hydrocarbures (SONATRACH) has a monopoly over im- ports and domestic sales of petroleum and petroleum products and handles most exports of these commodities. Investment of foreign capital in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria requires approval by a National Investment Committee in order to obtain the benefits of the Investment Code. 'Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands gu i l- ders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which no payments agreements are in force are made in convertible curren- cies. Settlements w i th countries with which Algeria has concluded bilateral payments agreements2 are made through special accounts under the terms of the agree- ments. Some of these accounts are denominated in Algerian dinars and others in U .S. dollars of account. Payments under foreign supply contracts (contrats de fournitures) can be made in either the currency in use at the headquarters of the supplier or that of the country of origin of the merchandise. Foreign holders of servicing contracts are required to open local nonresident accounts to which payments are made by the Algerian contracting party; such accounts must be closed within six months from the end of the contract, beyond which date outward transfers of the funds or their use for purposes unrelated to the contracts is not permitted. Nonresident Accounts Most nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars or Internal Nonresident Accounts. There are at present five types of accounts, as follows: 1. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened without authorization and may be credited with pay- ments from any country. Balances in such accounts opened prior to January 1, 1975 by nonresident physical persons of foreign nationality have been released for transfer abroad. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars (CEDAC accounts) may be opened by individuals or juridical persons of foreign nationality, including those under supply or servicing contract arrangements. Such ac- counts may be credited only with deposits that, under the regulations applicable when the deposit is made, are free from any restrictions on transfer. They may not be credited with amounts that are transferable to the bilateral area. They may be debited for payments to any foreign country, for payments in Algeria, or for the provision of foreign bank notes that the account holder intends to export when he travels abroad. These accounts bear interest and may not show a net debt position. 3. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, without prior authorization, in the name of any physical person residing in Algeria, not of Algerian nationality, who intends to leave Algeria to return to the country of origin, and also for nonresident nationals. These accounts may be credited freely with an amount equivalent to the holdings on October 20, 1963 in the account of the person concerned; with the proceeds from sales of real 2Algeria maintains payments agreements w i th Guinea and Guinea- Bissau. Specified noncommercial settlements w i th Morocco and Tunisia are channeled through a dirham account at the Bank of Morocco and an account in Tunisian dinars at the Central Bank of Tunisia. 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA estate of the account ho lder, provided that the funds are paid directly by a notary pub l ic; w i th the proceeds of the sale of securities through a bank; and w i th any other payments, up to DA 2,000. These accounts may be debited w i thout prior approval for certain paymen ts in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Ou twa rd transfers require ind iv idual approval. Emigrant workers may maintain certain accounts in Algeria that are credited w i th the proceeds from the conversion of convertible currencies (comptes epargne- devises). Depositors receive an incentive prem ium equivalent to 40 percent of the buy ing exchange rate on the conversion date of such foreign exchange. 4. Convertible Dinar Accounts for Nonresident Alge- rians were introduced in January 1980 as a means of attracting deposit funds from Algerian workers abroad. 5. Foreign Currency Accounts are held by phy s ical or ju r id ical foreign na t iona ls, who may be either nonres i- dents or persons who have resided for more than six months in a foreign coun t ry. Such accounts may be freely credited w i th (a) book transfers from abroad u s ing either postal or bank ing fac i l i t ie s, (b) imported conve r t- ible foreign currencies wh ich have been declared at the account holder's entry in the coun t ry, and (c) domestic bank- to-bank book transfers. The accoun ts may be f ree ly debited for book transfers abroad but on ly th rough the banking system; they may also be debited for purchases of dinars, for book transfers in d inars, and for purchases of convertible foreign currencies to be phy s ica l ly ex- ported by the account holder. A conversion p r em ium is received on any amount drawn and used for payment of expenses in the coun t ry, w i th the exception of legal payment obligations. The interest rate payab le on de- posits in these accounts is fixed a n n u a l ly by the M in is ter of Finance. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of or ig in. Law No. 78-02 of February 1 1, 1978 gives the Government a monopoly over foreign trade. All imports are pe rm i t ted, in pr inc ip le, in accordance w i th an annu al import program. This is implemented ma in ly through global import au thor iza t ions (autorisations globales d'importa- tion, or AGI) granted to pub l ic en terpr ises. There are five types of import au tho r iza t ions: (1) AGI Monopole, issued to enterprises holding monopoly rights to import specified commodities; (2) AGI de fonctionnement in- terne, issued to ind iv idu al enterprises for import requ i re- ments relating to the ir production a c t iv i ty; (3) AGI objectif planifie', issued to enterprises for imports relat- ing to their inves tment program; (4) AGI (sans paie- ment), under wh ich exemption from all exchange control formalities are granted to transac t ions not invo lv ing use of official foreign exchange or local currency or any other counterparts; and (5) AGI (sans transfer}, issued to enterprises for specified import products (c lass i f ied as consumable products —matieres consommables) u t i l ized 56 in pub l ic wo rks con trac ts; s imp l i f i ed exchange and trade control fo rma l i t ies app l ied to such t ransac t ions. All imports mu st be domiciled w i th an authorized bank, to wh ich the necessary import documents must be presented and th rough w h i ch all paymen ts related to the transac t ion mu st be made. W i thout a wa iver from the exchange control au tho r i ty (the M in is t ry of Finance or the Central Bank ), advance payments may not exceed 15 percent of the import va lue. In accordance w i th Law No. 80-07 of A u g u st 3, 1980, imports must be insured domes t ica l ly. Payments for Invisibles A ll p aym en ts for inv i s ib l es to a ll coun tr ies requ ire the approval of the Central Bank. When supporting docu- men ts are presented, howeve r, approval may be granted by au tho r ized b a n k s, or sometimes by the Postal Adm in- is t ra t ion, e i ther f ree ly or up to specified l im i ts for certain paymen ts such as (1) those relating to approved trade t ransac t ions and m a r i t ime con trac ts, (2) travel expenses, (3) t ran s fe rs of salaries and wages, (4) educa t ional expenses, and (5) adve r t is ing expenses. For paymen ts for wh ich the approval au thor i ty has not been delegated, the g ran t ing of exchange m u st be au tho r ized by e i ther the Central Bank or the M i n i s t ry of F inance. Certain pub l ic enterprises, wh ich receive special exchange allocations (budget devises}, may use these freely for payments for spec if ied i n v i s i b l e s, i n c l u d i ng transpor ta t ion and other services contracted abroad. The t rans fer of fam i ly remittances is suspended. Insurance on all risks arranged in A lge r ia by A lg e r i an res iden ts mu st be purchased in A lge r ia. Res iden ts of o ther coun t r ies wo rk ing in Algeria under the programs for techn ical cooperation or for pub l ic enterprises and agencies or for certain m ixed companies may t ran s fer abroad a percentage of the ir net salaries, as fo l low s: 50 percent for s ing le persons and married persons hav ing their fam i l ies in Algeria; and 70 percent for persons h a v i ng the ir f am i l i es abroad. For other wo rke rs who have con trac ts w i th other emp loyers and hold the necessary emp loyment documen ts, the amoun ts that may be transferred are 35 percent for single persons and marr ied persons h a v i ng t h e ir f am i l i es in A lger ia and 55 percent for persons h a v i ng the ir f am i l i es abroad. The paymen ts mu st be transferred once a month on the basis of the remune ra t ion for the prev ious mon th. Persons m a k i ng such t ran s fe rs are not en t i t led to a l loca t ions for other personal t r an s f e r s. For resident na t iona ls and ind iv idu a ls of foreign n a t i o n a l i ty in res ident s ta tus ( ex c lud ing those hav ing an e n t i t l em e nt to make t ran s fe r s) t rave l ing by air or sea to foreign coun t r ie s, inc lud ing countries in the French Franc Area, other than for medical reasons, the foreign exchange a l loca t ion is equ iv a l ent to DA 1,000 a person a ca lendar year (DA 500 for ch i ld ren under 15 years) and is delivered on p resen ta t ion of a va l id passport and travel vouchers; for overland trave l, the allocation is DA 1,000 a person a year for adu l ts and DA 500 for ch i ld ren under 15 yea rs. Re s iden ts r equ i r ing med ical t rea tment abroad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution receive a foreign exchange allowance equal to DA 800 if the patient is over 15 years and DA 400 if the patient is under 15 years. On each trip to Algeria, Algerians gainfully employed abroad are required to exchange an amount of convertible currency equivalent to DA 700 at the exchange rate operative on the day the transaction takes place. They receive the incentive premium only on those conversions or transfers that are not required of them by law or regulation. Emigrant Algerian workers who take their vacations in Algeria may, when returning abroad, re-export foreign exchange freely imported and duly declared on their arrival in Algeria. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia receive an alloca- tion in Saudi Arabian riyals; the amount of this allow- ance is fixed for each pilgrimage and may be furnished in the form of checks that may be cashed on arrival for those traveling by sea or by air. Resident travelers may take out Algerian dinar bank notes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers may also re-export any foreign currency declared upon entry. However, on their arrival in Algeria, nonresidents must convert foreign exchange equivalent to a minimum of DA 1,000. Travel tickets which are bought by nonresidents for traveling abroad must be paid for with imported foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Certain exports, including used equipment and ma- chinery, livestock, firearms, ammunition, explosives, and certain radio equipment, are prohibited regardless of destination. All other exports require a license, except those undertaken by state enterprises having a monopoly right to export. Some commodities may be exported, subject to individual prior approval, on the basis of linked transactions (transactions liees) involving at the same time an authorized import transaction. Since the promulgation of Law No. 78-02 of Feb- ruary 11, 1978, which conferred upon the Government a monopoly over foreign trade, exports may only be effected by public sector entities, unless a waiver is granted for a transitional period on a case-by-case basis. Exports must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Sales on consignment are subject to authorization by the Ministry of Finance, and registration must take place prior to customs clearance. Export proceeds must be repatriated immediately after collection. Unless a waiver is granted by the Ministry of Finance or the Central Bank of Algeria, the time limit for repatriation of export proceeds is 60 days from the date of shipment. However, for exports of hydrocarbons, the time limit is a max imum of 30 days after the completion of loading. Those petroleum companies that hold mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria the proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons, calculated on the basis of a contractual price a barrel that is fixed by agreement with the companies concerned. For one petroleum company holding mineral rights, however, there are different repatriation requirements. ALGERIA Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and surrendered. Savings repatriated in the form of convert- ible currencies by Algerians working abroad are eligible for an encouragement premium. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign bank notes, coin (except gold coin), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresidents, including those of Algerian nationality, must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Resident travel- ers may reimport Algerian dinar bank notes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian bank notes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any desti- nation are subject to individual license; residents are not normally permitted to acquire capital assets outside Algeria. All borrowing abroad or from nonresidents is subject to prior approval by the Minister of Finance or the Central Bank. The Investment Code of September 15, 1966 provides for state guarantees in respect of foreign investments of more than DA 500,000 in the industrial and tourist sectors and for a retransfer guarantee in respect of the sale or liquidation proceeds of invested foreign capital. It also establishes that profit remittances on such invest- ments will be permitted up to 15 percent annually of the foreign capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Remittances of profits and retransfers of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under the code. The law on joint ventures with foreign companies, which came into effect in April 1982, provides foreign partners with a guarantee of fair return on investment, tax exemptions of up to five years on industrial and commercial profits, reduced taxes on reinvestment profits, and the repatriation of earnings and royalties in respect of transfers of technology. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Under Ordinance No. 70-6 of January 16, 1970, unworked gold for industrial and professional use is distributed by the Agence Nationale pour la Distribution et la Transforma- tion de TOr et des Autres Metaux Precieux (AGENOR). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious metal, including gold. Imports of gold for use by dentists and goldsmiths are made by AGENOR, under import licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement February 19. A circular (arrete) of the M in is t ry of Finance was issued on the imp lemen ta t ion of the "incentive saving p rem ium ," concerning the inward transfer of freely convertible foreign currencies by physical or jur id ical foreign na t iona ls, and the exchange of freely convertible foreign currencies for d ina rs. The regulation provided for a un i fo rm p rem ium for all eligible inward remittances, at a rate to be determined from time to time by the M in is ter of F inance. (By the end of 1983, the prem ium was specified at a rate of 40 percent of the applicable buy ing rate on the conver- sion date.) February 19. An imp lemen t ing decree came in to effec t, specifying a fixed exchange rate for ou tward transfers of foreign exchange related to certain types of expenditures of pub l ic sector enterprises and adm in is tra- tive entities, inc lud ing paymen ts of salaries of the ir employees working abroad and grants for A lger ian students abroad. Nonresident Accounts February 19. Decree No. 31/83 was issued, spe l l ing out the legal and adm in is tra t ive procedures relating to foreign currency accounts for Algerians wo rk ing abroad. Imports and Import Payments January 11. The M in is t ry of Finance issued an implementing circular in respect of two types of global import authorization granted to pub l ic enterprises— namely, (1) AGI ( i .e ., autorisations globales d'importa- tion) sans paiement, issued to enterprises for imports not invo lv ing use of foreign exchange or local currency or any other counterparts, and not sub ject to any specific p roh ib i t ion, such import transactions being exempted from all exchange and trade control formalities; and (2) AGI (sans transfert) issued to enterprises for certain import goods for use in pub l ic works, for wh ich the exchange and trade control forma l i t ies were simplified. March 5. Under Decree No. 83/153, a list of products subject to an import compensatory tax on the c . i . f. value was es tab l ished, i n c l u d i ng cheese, eggs, dry f ru i t s, cosmetic produc ts, de tergen ts, s i lk t issues, and jewels. June 25. It was announced that cars imported by nonres ident na t iona ls and sold w i t h in one year from the date of en t ry wou ld be sub ject to the f u ll taxes and custom du t i e s; if sold after one year but before f ive years they would be subject to on ly 50 percent of the taxes and custom du t ies (Law No. 83/10). June 25. A regu la t ion was introduced, raising from DA 5,000 to DA 10,000 the l im it on personal con- sump t ion imports exempt from exchange and trade fo rma l i t ies. July 25. Leg is la t ion was issued, exemp t ing from exchange and trade formalities imports of new capital goods not i n v o l v i ng payment from o f f ic ial foreign ex ch ang e, provided that (a) the va lue in each case did not exceed DA 100,000 and (b) the goods were not destined for resale. September 25. A l i st of specified goods produced loca l ly was issued; imports of such goods were either banned or res tr ic ted. Proceeds from Invisibles May 21. In a mod i f ica t ion of Decree No. 82/175, Decree No. 83/347 was issued, granting authorization for impo r ta t ion of conver t ib le currencies by nonresident n a t ion a l s, provided that any such amount was declared upon en t ry in to the coun t ry. 58 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA (Position on December 3J, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Antigua and Barbuda is the East Caribbean dollar,l which is issued by the East Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The East Caribbean Dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 per US$1. On December 31, 1983 the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were ECS2.6882 and EC$2.7169, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. All foreign exchange transactions are subject to a levy of 1 percent; the minimum levy is EC$1 a transaction. Antigua and Barbuda formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as from November 22, 1983. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all currencies. Export licensing is required for a range of products, particularly those subject to export duties. Import licenses are issued by the Collector of Customs in the Ministry of Finance and by the Ministry of Economic Development, depending on the type of commodity. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned or in East Caribbean dollars. Settlements with residents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency or in East Caribbean dollars. Settlements involving South African currency are not permitted. Nonresident Accounts External accounts may be opened for nonresidents with the approval of the Ministry of Finance and may be maintained in any currency. A few residents —firms and individuals in export and tourist industries —are also allowed to open external accounts. External accounts can be credited only w i th proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies and with transfers from other External Ac- counts but not with payments by residents. Commercial banks are required to report external accounts operations to the Ministry of Finance on a monthly basis. 'The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of A n g u i l l a, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. K i t ts-Nev is, St. Luc ia, and St. Vincent and Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are An t igua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts- Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be freely imported under open general license granted by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other commodities require individual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. Antigua and Barbuda follows the CARICOM rules of origin adopted in June 1981. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence. Authority is delegated to commercial banks to approve application forms for import licenses after confirming sight of documents. The approved forms must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance on a weekly basis. Imports that are exempt from import duties include basic foods and agricultural imports. All other exemp- tions, for machinery, equipment, and raw materials, are granted on a case-by-case basis and generally under the Fiscal Incentives Law and the Hotel Incentives Act. Import duties are levied at the rate of 35 percent in line with the CARICOM common external tariff by the end of 1982. All imports are subject to a stamp duty. Payments for Invisibles Residents may purchase foreign exchange from autho- rized banks up to the equivalent of US$750 a trip outside the ECCB area; however, this limit may be exceeded w i th permission from the Ministry of Finance. In terms of CARICOM traveler's checks (which are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago currency), the basic allowance is TT$500 a trip for holiday travel, TT$2,500 a trip for business, and TT$3,000 a trip for medical expenses. Official authorization is required beyond these limits. There are no limits on the amount of local currency that may be taken out of the country. Profits may be remitted in fu l l, subject to confirmation by the Commission of Inland Revenue of registration for corporate income tax purposes. Student remittances are usually exempted from the foreign exchange levy. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required for certain com- modities to any destination. No surrender of export proceeds is required, and re-exports are not subject to any tax if they take place w i th in the bonded area. Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers to Antigua and Barbuda may bring in freely notes and coins denominated in East Caribbean dollars or in any foreign currency. Foreign currency coin is not normally exchanged. U .S. and Canadian currency for checks and drafts for U.S. or Canadian currency can be tendered up to US$1,000 without restriction; for amounts over US$1,000 Ministry of Finance approval must be obtained. Levy exemptions for transfers, espe- cially for charity purposes, are usually granted. 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA Capital There are no legislated restrictions on capital move- ments. Foreign investment is granted the same incentives as domestic investment under the Fiscal Incentives Law and the Hotel Incentives Act. Large transfers abroad for investment purposes can be phased over time by the Financial Secretary. Gold There are no restrictions on imports of gold. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement October 1. The East Caribbean Currency Authority was succeeded by the East Caribbean Central Bank, and An t igua and Barbuda (as well as Dom in ica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Luc ia, and St. V incent and the Grenadines) con t inued to be a member of the ins t i tu t ion. November 22. An t igua and Barbuda formally ac- cepted the ob l iga t ions of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreemen t. 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Argentina is the Peso Argentine. The exchange rate for the peso argentine in terms of U .S. dollars is announced on a daily basis by the Central Bank and adjusted in accordance with relative price move- ments and overall balance of payments objectives. On December 31, 1983 the closing rate for the U.S. dollar was $a 23.25 per US$1 (selling). Transactions are allowed in certain other currencies,l with daily quota- tions based on the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar on markets abroad. Purchases and sales of foreign exchange are subject to a tax of 0.6 percent. Forward exchange operations are permitted in the private sector with maturities of up to 180 days and at rates agreed by buyers and sellers; such operations must be related to trade transactions. Argentina formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2 , 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as from May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out through entities authorized expressly for this purpose. These authorized entities include banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, and exchange offices; each of these types of institution may be subject to separate regulation. Prescription of Currency Virtually all payments between Argentina and Boli- via, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Vene- zuela are made through accounts maintained by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks con- cerned, under reciprocal credit agreements within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Argen- tina and Cuba maintain a reciprocal credit arrangement by means of special accounts in each central bank, through which transactions between the two countries are settled; the limit under these accounts is US$10 mil- lion. Transactions with other countries must be settled in freely usable currencies. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos and in foreign exchange in the name of any nonresident, provided that the accounts are credited with remittances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds ster- ling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. Argentina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be effected freely, except in payment for exports. Imports and Import Payments Import payments may be made in any convertible currency. Payments for imports by the private sector contracted after October 21, 1983 may be effected automatically by authorized entities, provided the fi- nancing conforms to terms established by the Central Bank; otherwise prior central bank approval is required. Imports and related payments by the public sector require the prior approval of the Central Bank. In addition to customs duties, imports are subject to a stamp du ty of 0.6 percent and selective internal taxes ranging from 5 percent to 22 percent. All imports by the private sector require an import license (Certificate of Sworn Declaration of Need to Import) issued by the National Import Directorate of the Commerce Secretariat.2 The import of goods classified as "nonessential" (List I) is prohibited un t il June 30, 1984; this list consists primarily of consumer goods and of industrial inpu ts for wh ich close substitutes are amply available in Argentina. The prohibition does not apply to temporary imports, to goods included in the border traffic scheme, or to samples and prototypes. The Secretary of Commerce is empowered to grant import licenses for goods on List I when the import is considered necessary for scientific or technical reasons, or in light of the quantity or quality of domestic production. For most capital goods and certain industrial inputs (List II) the Commerce Secretariat issues import licenses upon approval by the Industry Secretariat and by an Honorary Import Advisory Committee on which both government institutions and competent commercial and industrial organizations are represented. Import licenses for raw materials and inputs for the pharmaceutical industry and for medical and health services (List III) require the prior approval of the Ministry of Health and Social Action, and licenses for imports intended for national defense and for the security and police forces require the prior approval of the Ministries of Defense or Interior. Import licenses are granted automatically for all goods not specifically covered by the foregoing provisions. Goods imported under concessions granted by any instrument of the LAIA agreement are exempt from the prohibition applicable to goods on List I and the re- 2 Beginning January 5, 1984 the import licensing requirement has been extended to imports by the public sector, and import licenses for the private sector are to be issued only after the importer has placed w i th a bank a deposit equal to either the estimated duty payable on the import, or 5 percent of import value, in cases of lower or equivalent du ty. The deposits are blocked un t il the import duty is paid or for a period of 90 days, whichever is earlier; they are indexed in terms of the U .S. dollar. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA view requirement for goods on List II. A lso, import licenses are issued automatically for goods covered under the Argen t ine-Uruguayan Economic Cooperation Agreement. Most imports are subject to m in imum f inanc ing terms of at least 180 days, calculated from the date of shipment. However, imports of goods originating in and transported from member coun tr ies of LAI A, member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM), Cuba, Haiti, Panama, or the Dominican Republic are subject to m i n im um f inanc ing terms of 120 days from shipment, except that goods on the LAI A "negotiated list" have a minimum financing term of 90 days. Payment against shipping documents is permitted for the following: goods imported by importers located in the National Territories of Tierra del Fuego, Antarc- tica, and the Islands of the South A t lan t ic and destined for the Special Customs Area established by Law No. 19640;3 fresh fruit received on consignment basis; and periodicals. Special m in imum f inanc ing terms apply for imports of capital goods valued at more than US$50,000. Not more than 5 percent may be paid prior to sh ipment and an additional 10 percent may be paid upon the submission of shipping documents. The balance of 85 percent of the f .o .b. value is to be paid in equal ins ta l lmen ts beg inn ing not earlier than six months after sh ipment according to the following schedule: F.o.b. Value of Import (In thousands of U.S. dollars) 50- 250 250- 500 500-1,000 1,000-1,500 1,500-2,000 More than 2,000 M i n im um F i n a n c i ng Term 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years To be determined upon consu l ta t ion w i th the Central Bank Imports of capital goods for which f inanc ing amoun t ing to 85 percent of the f . o . b. va lue is provided by international organizations or off ic ial creditors are ex- empt from these m in imum terms, as are imports by firms located in the National Territories of Tierra del Fuego, Antarctica, and the Islands of the South A t lan t ic. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior central bank approval. In general, no sales of exchange at the official rate for travel abroad are permitted; however, in excep- tional cases the Central Bank w i ll consider applications to purchase foreign exchange for travel abroad for medical treatment or for attendance at trade fairs. Exports and Export Proceeds M i n im um export prices (reference prices) are estab- lished for many agr icu l tural and livestock exports as a basis for the payment of duties and the surrender of export proceeds. The fu ll f .o .b. proceeds from all exports must be repatriated and surrendered; the pro- ceeds must not be less than the reference price, or if there is no reference price, the f . o . b. va lue declared on the shipping permit. Proceeds may be received in any convertible currency. Proceeds from traditional exports mu st be received before sh ipmen t, by means of advance payments or irrevocable letters of credit payable against shipping documents in A rgen t ina. Proceeds from pro- moted exports must be repatriated w i th in 180 days from the date of shipment. In both cases, export proceeds mu st be surrendered w i th in 15 work ing days from the respective t ime l im i ts. Traditional exports are subject to export taxes. The applicable tax rates on December 31, 1983 were 18 per- cent for whea t; 25 percent for other grains and for live cattle; 22 percent for greasy wool; 15 percent for scoured wool; 10 percent for processed hides; and 10, 15, or 20 percent for other trad i t ional exports. Certain nontraditional exports are eligible for re- bates; on December 31, 1983 the rebates amounted to 5 percent or 10 percent of export va lue, depending on the type of export. Exports shipped through certain ports were e l ig ib le for additional rebates ranging from 8-13 percent.4 Many exports, particularly nontraditional exports, are e l ig ib le for other export incentives of various kinds. The Central Bank has established a system of special financ- ing, to be granted to Argentine exporters through banks, w i th a view to promoting exports of certain goods and services.5 Certain produc ts, mostly nontraditional ex- ports, may be shipped "on consignment" for 360 days; if not sold w i th in that period, the goods must be returned to Argen t ina. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from fre ight and transportation services and from insurance and reinsurance activity must be surren- dered w i th in 30 days of receipt. Exchange derived from other inv is ib les need not be surrendered. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes and coin, as well as gold coin and "good delivery" gold bars. 3Beg inn ing February 24, 1984 imports destined for the special customs area of Tierra del Fuego are subject to the fo l low ing m in imum f inanc ing terms: 75 days for imports on the "negotiated l is t" shipped from and originating in LAI A countries; 105 days for "nonnegotiated" imports from LAIA and imports from the CACM, Cuba, H a i t i, Panama, or the Dominican Republic; and 150 days for imports from all other countries. 4On J anu a ry 1, 1984 the reba tes for goods shipped through specified port locations were reduced to a range of 7-12 percent. 5The A rg en t ine Export Credit Insu rance Company provides credit insurance against commercial and ordinary risks and also coverage for ex traord inary r isks (on the account of the Central Government) and for exports of capital goods and consumer durables and certain other consumer goods. 62 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Proceeds from foreign loans must be sold in the exchange market. In general, there are no limitations on inward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. All amortization payments on loans, other than import- related loans provided in conformity with the established minimum terms, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. All loans outstanding and covered by a swap agreement with the Central Bank as of December 4, 1982 and all loans for which the domestic borrower obtained an exchange rate guarantee from the Central Bank must be extended under minimum terms estab- lished by the Central Bank. Loans covered by swap agreements will be repaid in four equal semiannual installments with the first payment beginning 540 days after the final maturity of the swap agreement, except when loans are related to import transactions in which case repayment will then be made in three quarterly installments beginning 270 days after the final maturity of the swap agreement. In lieu of providing foreign exchange to meet principal falling due on loans covered by exchange rate guarantees, the Government of Argen- tina is issuing U .S. dollar-denominated bonds or promis- sory notes. Such bonds or promissory notes have a grace period of 3!/2 years and a maturity of 5 years and pay interest at a spread of 2 percentage points over LIB OR or F/8 percentage points over the U .S. prime rate. The inflow of financial loans undertaken by local foreign-owned enterprises and originating from foreign enterprises which either directly or indirectly control the borrowing enterprises or are their subsidiaries requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. Loans endorsed or guaranteed by the State also require prior authoriza- tion from the Central Bank. Banks may accept foreign currency deposits with m in imum maturities of 7 days and lend the proceeds domestically at freely determined rates of interest. Foreign borrowing by the public sector is regulated by Decree-Law No. 19328 of October 29, 1971 and Decree No. 3532 of November 25, 1975. Outward capital transfers are subject to prior authoriza- tion by the Central Bank. The foreign investment regime is governed by the Foreign Investment Law (codified text of 1980), which incorporates the amendments made under Law No. 22208 to Law No. 21382. Promulgated by Decree No. 1062 of June 30, 1980, the Foreign Investment Law is regulated by Decree No. 103 of January 19, 1981. Investments may be made in freely convertible foreign currency; new or used capital goods and their spare parts and accessories; profits and capital in pesos argentinos belonging to foreign investors, provided that they are legally transferable abroad; capitalization of external credits received in freely convertible foreign currency; intangible assets; and any other form acceptable to the implementing authority or covered by a special regime or a promotion regime. For approval purposes, investments are classified into three categories, as follows: ARGENTINA (1) Subject to prior approval by the National Execu- tive are (a) investments in the defense and national security sectors, in public service sectors including the postal system, electricity, gas, and telecommunications, and in radio transmitters, television stations, news- papers, periodicals and magazines, energy, education, and financial and insurance institutions; (b) transfers of capital and the acquisition of shares (the latter being permissible only in exceptional cases when it is mani- festly beneficial to the national economy), which involve changing the national ownership structure of a local firm belonging to national investors and having net assets exceeding US$10 million; (c) acquisition of goodwill belonging to national investors and having a value exceeding the above-mentioned amount; (d) investments that exceed US$20 million; (e) investments where the investor is a juridical person under public law; and (f) investments where special or promotional benefits are requested that can be granted only by the National Executive and the proposed investment is contingent on them. (2) No prior approval is required for (a) total or partial reinvestment of a registered foreign investor's profits (even in the sectors referred to in item (1) above), provided that they do not involve changing the national ownership structure of the receiving firm and are intended to foster the activities for which the original investment was approved or in which the firm was engaged when the law entered into force; (b) new investments in freely convertible foreign currency made for the same purposes as mentioned in item (1) above and not exceeding 30 percent of the registered capital in the receiving firm and which do not involve converting it into a "domestic firm with foreign capital," or new investments that are made pursuant to a preferential right and in order to maintain an interest equal to or lower than what was held up to that time; (c) new transfers of freely convertible foreign currency not exceeding US$5 million and not involving a change in the national ownership structure of an existing local firm; and (d) investment in any of Argentina's stock markets, provided that the amount does not exceed US$2 million for each foreign investor and so long as total foreign investment does not exceed 2 percent of the capital of the company involved. (3) All other foreign investments are subject to prior approval by the implementing authority, which must give its decision within 120 days from the date on which the investment proposal is submitted. Foreign investments existing prior to the entry into force of the Foreign Investment Law are governed by its provisions, wh ich include a special regime for their inscription and definitive recognition. Existing and new foreign investments, as well as all capital movements relating thereto, may be recorded in the Register of Foreign Investments, which is kept by the Ministry of Economy. Registered foreign investments may generally be repatriated three years after entry into Argentina, unless a longer period was fixed when the investment was 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA approved. The right to transfer profits and to repatriate capital related to properly registered inves tmen ts can be suspended on ly by the Na t ional Execu t ive. In that even t, registered foreign investors are en t i t led to receive, for the remittance of profits abroad, the equ iv a l ent of the sum to be transferred in external pub l ic debt securities denominated in foreign currency, at the rate of interest prevailing in the international market, against provision of the equ iva lent in pesos argen t inos. Profits on registered foreign capital are subject to a special tax on af ter- tax profit when they exceed 12 per- cent of registered capital on an annual basis. Th is tax is 15 percent on profits of more than 12 percent and up to 15 percent of registered capital, 20 percent for those of more than 15 percent and up to 20 percent of registered capital, and 25 percent for those of more than 20 percent of registered cap i ta l. The extension of domestic credit to "domestic f i rms w i th foreign capital" is subject to special p rov is ions, as set forth in Law No. 21382 (A r t ic le 17) and Decree No. 283/77 (Article 71, as amended in 1980). Gold Residents may hold gold coin and gold in any other form in Argen t ina or abroad. F inanc ial i n s t i t u t i o n s, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or se ll gold in the form of coin or "good de l ivery" bars among themselves or buy such gold from the ir c l i en t s. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are subject to a statistical duty of 0.6 percent, and those by other users are subject in addition to sales tax. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement June I. A new monetary u n i t, the "peso argentine" was introduced; its va lue was set equal to 10,000 of the former peso. September 30. All sales of fore ign exchange were made subject to prior approval by the Central B a n k, and all outstanding and unu t i l ized authorizations for the sale of foreign exchange were requ ired to be re va l ida ted (Commun ica t ion No. A 391 ). Imports and Import Payments March 17. The m i n im um foreign f inanc ing term for most imports was reduced from 180 days to 150 days (Commun ica t ion No. A 292). March 24. App l ica t ion of Reso lu t ion No. SC 19, under wh ich most imports of most consumer goods were made subject to a requ irement of prior s tudy, and thereby effec t ive ly banned was extended to J u ne 30, 1983. April 18. The m i n im um foreign f in an c ing period for most imports was further reduced from 150 days to 120 days (Commun ica t ion No. A 304). June 28. App l ica t ion of the Reso lu t ion under w h i ch most imports of consumer goods were made subject to a requirement of prior s tudy, and the reby e f f e c t iv e ly banned was extended to December 31, 1983, but w i th 64 cer ta in exemp t ions, i n c l u d i n g, inter a l ia, those under special import reg imes, noncommerc ial imports by p r iva te pa r t ies, and prototypes and samples. In add i t ion, the U n d er Secretary of Foreign Trade was empowered to au tho r ize impo r ta t ion of goods intended for use as spare parts, for hea l th serv ices, or for techn ical or indus t r ial use (Reso lu t ion No. SC 163). October 10. The acceptance of applications for im- port licenses (Certificates of Sworn Declaration of Need to Import) was suspended u n t il fu r ther notice, except for goods for w h i ch sub s t i tu t es were not produced in A rg en t in a, goods for w h i ch no payment in foreign exchange was r e q u i r e d, personal baggage, and noncom- me rc ial sh ipm en ts to p r iva te par t ies. In add i t ion, un- u t i l i z ed balances on ou t s tand ing import licenses were voided (Reso lu t ion No. ME 361). October 11. A m i n im um foreign f inanc ing require- ment of 120 days was introduced for imports originating in member coun t r i es of the La t in Ame r ican Integration Assoc ia t ion ( L A I A ), wh e th er or not negotiated under the LAI A accord, and for imports o r ig in a t ing in the member coun t r ies of the Cen tral Ame r ican Common Marke t, or in Cuba, H a i t i, P an am a, or the Dom in ican Repub l ic (Commun i c a t ion No. A 393). October 20. The requ irement of prior s tudy, under wh ich imports of most consumer goods were effectively banned, was extended to imports o r ig ina t ing in member coun t r i es of LA IA and negotiated under the LAIA agreement (R e s o l u t i on No. SC 382). October 20. The suspens ion of the g r an t ing of import l icenses s ince October 10, 1983 was l i f t e d, and a system of fo re ign exchange a l loca t ions was established as the bas is for the g r a n t i ng of import licenses. Under this sy s tem, each importer wou ld be g iven an exchange allocation for each customs tar iff heading equal to a specified percentage of his imports under that customs ta r i ff head ing du r ing the 12 months through September 1983. Impo rt l icenses w o u l d, howeve r, be granted a u t om a t i c a l ly for the f o l l ow i ng i tems not subject to the exchange a l loca t ion sys tem: (a) goods for wh i ch use of o f f i c i al fo re ign exchange was not requ ired; (b) noncom- me rc ial sh ipm en ts to p r iva te ind iv idu a l s; (c) goods covered by special import reg imes; (d) replacement parts of capital goods for f inal users; and (e) fu e l. In addition, u n u t i l i z ed balances on import licenses issued before September 30 were cancelled, but provision was made for the g r an t ing of new licenses for goods shipped prior to October 10, 1983 (R e s o l u t i on No. SC 382). October 21. The m i n i m um fore ign f i n a n c i ng require- ment for impor ts was raised from 120 days to 180 days for most impor ts, but was reduced from 120 days to 90 days for imports o r ig ina t ing in the member countries of the LA IA, and negotiated under the LA IA accord. Goods imported by importers located in the National Territories of Tierra del Fuego, An ta rc t ica, and the Is lands of the Sou th A t l a n t ic con t inued to be exempt from a ll m i n i m um f i n a n c i ng r equ i r em en ts (Commun ica- t ion No. A 397). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution November 17. It was announced that import li- censes would henceforth be granted automatically for goods covered under the Argentine-Uruguayan Economic Cooperation Agreement (Resolution No. SC 435). December 7. The import duty on specified types of microcomputers and certain other data processing equip- ment was raised from 10 percent to 30 percent (Resolu- tion No. ME 1439). December 29. A new import regime came into effect, as follows, under Presidential Decree No. 319: The import of goods included in a long list of customs tariff headings (List I) was prohibited until June 30, 1984; the list consisted primarily of consumer goods and industrial inputs for which close substitutes were considered to be amply available in Argentina. The prohibition did not apply to temporary imports, goods included in the border traffic scheme, or to samples and prototypes. In addi- tion, imports covered by irrevocable letters of credit opened before December 29, 1983, or financed under agreements concluded with international organizations before that date, were exempt from the prohibition, and the Secretary of Commerce was empowered to grant other exemptions when justified for technical reasons or in light of the quality or quantity of domestic production. All goods not included in List I would remain subject to the import licensing system administered by the Secretary of Commerce. For goods on another long list of customs tariff headings (List II, covering capital goods and specified industrial inputs), the Commerce Secretariat would issue import licenses upon approval by the Industry Secretariat and by an Honorary Import Advisory Committee comprised of representatives of government institutions and competent commercial and industrial organizations. The same review procedure was instituted for spare parts classified under List I. For List III items (consisting of imports of raw materials and other inputs for the pharmaceutical indus- try and for medical and health services), the Commerce Secretariat would issue import licenses with the prior approval of the Ministry of Health and Social Action. Licenses for imports intended for national defense and for the security and police forces were made subject to the prior approval of the Ministries of Defense or Interior. Import licenses would be granted automatically for all goods not specifically covered by the foregoing Lists and provisions. In addition, goods imported under concessions granted by any instrument of the LA1A agreement were exempted from the prohibition applica- ble to goods on List I and the review requirement for goods on List II. Payments for Invisibles July 12. The Central Bank announced that it would not authorize sales of foreign exchange for settlement of obligations incurred after July 25, 1983 through the use of credit cards abroad (Communication No. A 341). August 15. The Central Bank announced that, in duly justified cases, it would authorize sales of foreign ARGENTINA exchange in excess of the established limits for foreign study, transfers for family support abroad, foreign medical treatment, and foreign travel (Communication No. 370). August 15. Access to foreign exchange at the official rate for transfers of profits, dividends, royalties, and technical assistance payments was restored under Reso- lution No. ME 899. (Since April 20, 1982 such transfers could only be effected through the purchase of U.S. dollar-denominated bonds issued by the Government of Argentina.) August 19. The limits on sales of foreign exchange for foreign travel, without prior approval by the Central Bank, were reduced to US$100 a day (up to US$1,500 a year) for travel to countries outside South America, and to US$50 a day (up to US$300 a year) for travel to nonneighboring countries in South America. The prohib- ition on sales of exchange at the official rate for travel to neighboring countries remained in force (Communica- tion No. C 1040). September 9. It was announced that the amount of foreign exchange which could be sold without prior approval by the Central Bank for foreign travel by children between the ages of 6 and 12 would be limited to 50 percent of the amounts generally provided under prevailing regulations; for children under 6 years old, no foreign exchange for travel could be sold automatically (Communication No. C 1082). September 15. The annual limits on sales of foreign exchange for foreign travel without prior approval by the Central Bank were reduced to US$1,000 a person for travel outside South America and US$200 a person for travel to nonneighboring countries within South America. The per diem limits and other provisions governing the automatic sales of exchange for foreign travel remained in force (Communication No. C 1103). September 30. Official sales of exchange for foreign travel were suspended (Communication No. A 391). Exports and Export Proceeds January 6. It was announced that, for goods shipped abroad on consignment, the date of sale abroad would be considered to be the date of shipment for purposes of compliance with the exchange surrender requirement and treatment of the exchange proceeds under the exchange system (Communication No. C 594). January 28. The special rebates for exports of goods originating from, and shipped through ports located in certain less developed regions of the country were increased from a range of 5-9 percent to a range of 8-11 percent of export value (Resolution No. ME 88). March 2. Provisions were established for the surren- der of export proceeds beyond the normal time limits, when such delays resulted from payments restric- tions imposed by foreign governments (Communication A 289). April 15. The special regime involving a rebate equaling 5 percent of value for exports to new markets was abolished (Resolution No. ME 865); applications 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA already received under the system wou ld, however, be processed and rebates granted. June 7. The export tax on rice was reduced from 10 percent to zero for 90 days (Reso lu t ion No. ME 650). July 7. A rebate was established for f ish exports deriving from off ic ia l ly promoted projects; the amount of the rebate was set at 11 percent, 13 percent, or 15 per- cent depending upon the region of origin (Resolution No. ME 762). July 12. A rebate equal to 23 percent of the export value was introduced for exports of passenger veh i- cles not intended for public transportation (Reso lu t ion No. ME 766). July 19. The export tax on coal was reduced from 20 percent to zero (Resolution No. ME 798). July 19. The export tax on raw tobacco was reduced from 25 percent to 10 percent for a period of 180 days (Resolution No. ME 801). August 5. The export tax on certain mineral products was reduced to zero (Resolution No. ME 888). August 11. A special rebate of 10 percent was introduced for exports of specified goods originating in specified provinces of Argentina and shipped th rough Chilean ports located north of the 30th para l le l. In addition, a commission was empowered to consider additions to the list of exports eligible for th is rebate (Resolution No. ME 906). August 2 7. A 10 percent rebate was introduced, for a period of 180 days, for exports of certain ju ice concen- trates (Resolution No. ME 973). September 21. The 23 percent rebate for exports of passenger vehicles, introduced on J u ly 12, 1983, was abolished (Resolution No. ME 1074). September 22. The max imum period for the surrender of export proceeds was increased to 90 days for fresh f ru it exported against irrevocable letters of credit (Com- munication No. A 388). September 22. The export tax on front quar ters of beef for shipments to Egypt was reduced from 20 per- cent to zero for a period of 60 days (Reso lu t ion No. ME 1091). November 9. A rebate equal to 10 percent of export value was introduced, for a period up to J u ly 31, 1984, for exports of fruit juice concentrates, other than orange juice (Resolution No. ME 1293). November 15. Most agricultural products, as we ll as meat and skins, were excluded from the list of goods exportable on a consignment basis (Commun ica t ion No. 409). November 18. A special regime was established for refinancing certain domestic debts of, and ex tend ing new loans with a government guarantee to, those meat packing firms that were exporting at least 30 percent of their output; access to such new loans wou ld be based on each f irm's exports between January 1 and J u ne 30, 1983 (Communication No. A 411 ). November 25. The export tax on certain fresh f ru i ts was reduced from 5 percent to zero, and a rebate of 10 percent was introduced for exports of canned and 66 processed f r u i t s. These measures were scheduled to rema in in e f fect u n t il J u ne 30, 1984 (Reso lu t ion No. ME 1358). November 28. The 10 percent export tax on gelatins and an imal g lues was abolished (Resolution No. ME 1365). December 7. The exemp t ion from export taxes for exports of f ront qua r te rs of beef was extended for 120 days (Re so lu t ion No. ME 1496). December 7. The special rebates for exports produced in, and exported th rough, ports located in certain less developed reg ions were revised from a range of 8 — 11 percent to a range of 8 — 13 percent of export va lue. Exports produced in the Province of N euqu en, and shipped th rough the specified ports, were made eligible for these special reba tes, as were certain exports of wool and o ther a n im al f ibe r s, wherever produced. It was decreed that these special rebates would be reduced by 1 percentage po int on J anu a ry 1, 1984 and be maintained at that level for a period of 11 years; they were scheduled to be reduced by 1 percentage po int a year beg inn ing from 1995 (P res iden t ial Decree No. 23018). December 16. The export tax on wheat was reduced from 25 percent to 18 percent of export va lue (Resolu- t ion No. ME 7 /83 ). Proceeds from Invisibles May 13. A regu la t ion was introduced requ ir ing net fore ign exchange receipts from air or sea fre ight and t ranspo r ta t ion services and from insu rance and reinsur- ance a c t i v i ty to be surrendered w i t h in 30 days of receipt (Commun i c a t ion No. A 315 ). P rev iou s ly, proceeds from such transac t ions were not subject to surrender requ i remen t s. July 21. Net fore ign exchange proceeds from land freight and transportation were made subject to surrender r equ i r em en ts w i t h in 30 days of receipt (Commun ica t ion No. A 347). Capital January 26. The Cen tral Bank announced the terms of the U . S. do l la r -denom ina ted bonds and promissory notes to be issued by the Gove rnment of Argentina in l ieu of p rov id ing fore ign exchange to meet principal repayments f a l l ing due on certain private sector foreign debts w i th exchange rate guaran tee by the Central Bank. Such bonds or promissory notes would have a grace period of 31/2 years and a m a t u r i ty of 5 years, and would pay in terest at a rate of 2 percentage po in ts over 6-month LIBOR (Commun i c a t ion No. A 278). June 1. The Cen tral Bank issued regulations p rov id ing for the compu lsory rollover of Argentine pr iva te sector fore ign loans covered by swap agreements w i th the Cen tral B a n k. Such loans wou ld be repaid in four equal s em i annu al i n s t a l lm e n ts beg inn ing 540 days af ter the last m a tu r i ty of the swap agreement, except for certain loans related to import transactions for wh ich repayment would be made in three quarterly installments b eg inn ing 270 days af ter the m a tu r i ty of the swap agreement (Commun ica t ions Nos. A 327 and A 328). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution June 1. All principal repayments falling due on foreign loans for which domestic borrowers had obtained an exchange rate guarantee from the Central Bank during 1982 were required to be rescheduled with at least 3!/2 years grace and 5 years total maturity. The instru- ment for the rescheduling would be a U.S. dollar- denominated bond or promissory note issued by the Government of Argentina. Previously, mandatory rescheduling provision had applied only to loans covered by exchange rate guarantees issued in 1981 (Communi- cation No. C 853). June 1. It was announced that the U .S. dollar- denominated bonds and promissory notes issued in lieu of providing foreign exchange to meet principal repay- ments falling due on loans covered by exchange rate guarantees could be issued in the name of the domestic debtors, rather than the foreign creditors, in which case the bonds or promissory notes would serve to guarantee a rescheduling agreed directly between the creditor and the debtor. In addition, it was announced that, in cases where the creditor was a bank, the mandatory reschedul- ing of exchange guaranteed loans could be effected through a direct loan from the bank to the Government of Argentina on the same terms as had been agreed for the rescheduling of the debt of the Argentine public sector to foreign banks (Communication No. C 853). June 3. The National Oversight Commission respon- sible for the implementation of Law No. 22591 of May 18, 1982, which froze the assets of firms owned or directly or indirectly controlled by British subjects not resident in Argentina, was given the authority to suspend the provisions of that law for specified entities (Law No. 22820). July 8. The provisions of Law No. 22591 of May 18, 1982 (see entry for June 3) were suspended with regard to the transfer of profits, dividends, royalties, and technical assistance payments by financial firms. August 8. The provisions of Law No. 22591 of May 18, 1982 (see entry for June 3) were suspended with regard to the transfer of profits, dividends, royalties, and technical assistance payments by nonfinancial firms. ARGENTINA August 9. It was announced that firms participating in the Government's price adjustment accord would be entitled to a reduction of 2 percentage points a month in the premium paid for their exchange rate insurance contracts (Communication No. A 358). October 5. It was decreed that all fixed-term deposits in foreign exchange maturing in the period through December 4, 1983 should be extended for a period of 60 days beyond the original maturity date, and that all demand deposits in foreign exchange were frozen until December 4,~1983. Deposits of international organiza- tions, embassies, consulates, and legations, or their staff, were exempted from the provisions of this law (Law No. 22937). November 4. In those cases where neither the foreign creditors nor the domestic debtor had, by November 4, 1983, taken delivery of the U .S. dollar-denominated bond or promissory note issued in lieu of providing foreign exchange in repayment of loans covered by an exchange rate guarantee of the Central Bank, the accrued interest on that bond or promissory note would be placed in a deposit at the Central Bank and blocked for a period of 180 or 120 days, depending upon whether delivery was taken before or after December 15, 1983. Such deposits were to earn interest at a rate of 1 percentage point over LIBOR or 17/s percentage points over the U.S. prime rate (Communication No. A 404). December 5. The Central Bank announced proce- dures for the registration of all Argentine private sector external obligations with an original value in excess of US$15,000, including the reregistration of obligations that had been reported previously. The status of such obligations was to be reported as of December 31, 1982 and October 31, 1983 (Communication No. A 418). December 12. The system under which firms partici- pating in the Government's price accord paid reduced premiums for their exchange rate insurance contracts (see entry for August 9) was terminated (Communication No. A 426). 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Aus tra l ia is the Au s t ra l ian D o l l a r .' The Australian authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supp ly cond i t ions in the exchange market, but the Reserve Bank of Australia retains discretionary power to in tervene in the foreign exchange market. On December 30, 1983 the closing buy ing and selling rates in terms of the U . S. dollar were $A 1.074 = US$1 and $A 1.1099 - US$1, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. The trading banks provide forward exchange cover to residents for trade transactions and some trade-related transactions in inv is ib les. The banks deal w i th the ir customers in forward exchange at mu tua l ly negotiated rates. Banks may hold foreign currency balances (spot and forward) or incur foreign currency liabilities (spot and forward) w i th in l im i ts established for each bank. In addition, there is a foreign currency hedge market in which the trading banks and some merchant banks match the currency hedge requirements of the ir customers at market-determined rates. Forward cover on th is market can be arranged for any type of current or capital transaction and may be obtained for any currency subject to market availability. Nonresidents may transact busi- ness in the hedge marke t, a l though it is a nonde l ivery market w i th all settlements in Aus t ra l ian do l lars. Australia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, as from Ju ly 1, 1965. Administration of Control Following abolition of most exchange controls on December 12, 1983, consent of the Reserve Bank continues to be required for a range of foreign transac- tions, so as to ensure conformance w i th the Govern- men t's tax and foreign inves tment policies. Such consent is conditional on clearance by the appropriate govern- ment au thor i ty. Import and export controls are imposed on certain commodities pu rsuant to the Customs Ac t. These controls are administered by the relevant M in is te rs and Departments according to regu la t ions under that Act. Prescription of Currency Both outward and inward paymen ts may be settled in Aus tra l ian currency or in any foreign cu r rency ,2 but purchases and sales of foreign currency by residents in 'The Aus t ra l ian dollar also c ircu la tes in a n um b er of other coun t r i e s, inc lud ing K i r iba t i, N au ru, and Tuv a lu. 2Foreign currencies are de f ined as all cu r renc ies other t h an the Au s t ra l ian do l la r. 68 exchange for A u s t r a l i an currency mu st be undertaken w i th a bank in A u s t r a l i a. Nonresident Accounts Financial ins t i tu t ions in Aus tra l ia are permitted to offer accounts denom ina ted in foreign currencies, but purchases and sales of fore ign currency must be handled th rough a bank in A u s t r a l i a. However, special rules apply to overseas b a n k s, central bank s, governments, and government agencies; bas ica l ly, they may hold essential wo rk ing ba lances and are not permitted to invest at in te res t. Nonres iden ts may w i thd raw their ba lances w i t h o ut re s t r ic t ion. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported w i t h o ut import licenses, and no res tr ic t ions are imposed on paymen ts for imports. Import re s t r ic t ion s, i n c l u d i ng quo ta s, are imposed on certain goods, a l though not for exchange control pur- poses; the restrictions are ma in ta ined ma in ly for reasons of indu s t ry ass is tance, h e a l th, c omm u n i ty protection, or secu r i ty, or to su s ta in q u a l i ty standards. There is p rov is ion in the Customs Tariff A n t i d um p i ng Act 1975 for action to be taken when dumped imports have caused, are cau s ing, or are threa ten ing material in ju ry to A u s t r a l i an i n d u s t r i e s. Dump ing du t ies may be imposed un less the exporters vo lun ta r i ly raise their export prices to the level necessary to remove in ju ry. Du r ing 1983 a to tal of 101 comp la in ts of alleged dump ing were received. A total of over 75 cases were completed du r ing the year, of wh i ch 33 resulted in the impos i t ion of d um p i ng du t ies or the acceptance of price und e r t ak ings by the overseas exporter. Payments for Invisibles A ll rem i t tances for inv i s ib l es requ i re authorization but they are not restricted. Remittances to Vanua tu are sub ject to special tax-screen ing procedures. Applications for ou tward transfers in connec t ion w i th current inv is- ibles are no rma l ly dealt w i th immediately by banks. Forms do not have to be f i l l ed out for transactions up to $A 10,000. There is no prescribed l im it on travel fund s. B anks may approve for each person up to $A 10,000 for any j o u r n e y, w i th app l ica t ions for larger amoun ts to be referred to the Reserve B a n k. S im i l a r l y, no specific l im i ts are p laced on rem i t tances for f am i ly ma in tenance and g i f t s, b u t, for ind iv idu al cases beyond $A 10,000, app l ica t ions mu st be referred to the Reserve Bank. Travelers may take o u t, w i t h o ut special au tho r iza t ion, up to $A 250 in A u s t r a l i an currency notes p lus $A 5 in Au s t r a l i an co in. Travelers who are not residents of Aus tra l ia may take out w i thout forma l i ty any amount in foreign currency or A u s t r a l i an currency ins t rumen ts (other than A u s t r a l i an do l lar notes) provided that they brought them in to A u s t r a l i a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Export permits or licenses are not required except in respect of goods covered by the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations, Customs (Endangered Species) Regulations, and regulations administered by the Depart- ment of Primary Industry to provide quality controls over certain primary products. There are no formalities covering the disposal of export proceeds. Under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations, the export of certain minerals and metals, hydrocarbons, and nuclear sensitive material is prohibited unless per- mission to export is granted by the Minister for Trade or an authorized person. The regulations apply to certain raw or semiprocessed minerals, metals, fuels, and petroleum products. Among other things, export controls are used in necessary cases to ensure that (a) fair and reasonable world market prices are achieved, (b) ade- quate supplies are available for the domestic market, (c) international and strategic obligations are met, (d) the Government's nuclear safeguards and physical protec- tion requirements on exports are met, consistent with Australia's international obligations in relation to uranium and nuclear materials, and (e) account is taken of environmental considerations. Controls are available to facilitate the observance of Australia's obligations under international commodity agreements, to comple- ment orderly marketing arrangements under Australian legislation, and to provide that domestic needs for certain agricultural and industrial inputs are satisfied ahead of export demands. With respect to rural com- modities, the Government follows the general principle that exporters should be the main negotiators for export contracts and that the market should determine prices; generally, the export control power is not used but is held in reserve to be used if and when the need arises, consistent with the need to protect the national interest and to meet market access limitations imposed by importing countries. There are also provisions for government control over the export of defense material. Controls also exist over exports of Australian-registered ships. These controls are exercised to ensure that an adequate fleet of vessels remains available for local purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles Earnings of invisibles in foreign currencies may be retained or sold for Australian dollars. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic bank notes for travel expenditure. Capital There are no restrictions on transfers of capital (whether direct or portfolio) from Australia or repay- ments of overseas borrowings. Applications are read- ily approved. Borrowing agreements w i th residents of scheduled countries and territories3 require approval 3These are listed as Bahamas, Bermuda, British Channel Islands, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Gibraltar, Grenada, Hong Kong, Isle of Man, Liberia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Nauru, Netherlands An t i l les, Panama, Sw i tzer land, Tonga, and Vanua tu. AUSTRALIA which is readily granted upon presentation of a tax clearance certificate. Borrowing agreements with resi- dents of other countries do not require authorization. Nonresidents, except foreign governments, govern- ment agencies, and foreign banks, including central banks, may deposit funds at interest and make other interest-bearing investments in Australia without for- mality. Investments by residents of scheduled countries are subject to tax clearance. Portfolio investment (other than interest-bearing investment) and direct investment in Australia by nonresidents are governed by the Govern- ment's foreign investment policy. The Australian Gov- ernment's foreign investment policy is based on a recognition of the significant contribution that foreign capital can make to the development of Australia's industries and resources and the scope it provides for higher rates of growth in economic activity and employ- ment than would otherwise be the case. The Govern- ment's policy is to encourage foreign investment pro- vided such investment is consistent with Australia's national interests and meets the needs of the Australian commun i ty. Australia's foreign investment policy is concerned primarily with direct investment by foreign interests having significant implications for the levels of foreign ownership and foreign control of Australian industries and resources. Certain types of proposals are subject to examination by the Foreign Investment Review Board (which is the advisory body to the Government on foreign investment proposals). Examinable proposals include those falling within the scope of the Foreign Takeovers Act, those involving the establishment of a new business or project (irrespective of size) in industries subject to special restrictions (finance, insurance, the media, civil avia- tion, u ran ium and activities relating to uran ium), or in other sectors where the total amount of the investment is $A 5 million or more (including diversification into activities not previously undertaken directly in Australia and new projects in mining and other natural resource industries), those involving direct investments by foreign governments or their agencies (excluding investments related to their official representation), and those to acquire real estate and real estate development projects. The Foreign Takeovers Act is concerned with the acquisition of companies or businesses operating in Australia by foreign interests. The Act requires nonresi- dents, nonresident-controlled corporations or businesses, and Australian companies in which nonresidents have a substantial shareholding to notify the Government of proposals to acquire, or alter, a substantial interest in a company. A substantial foreign interest is defined for the purposes of foreign investment policy as an interest of 15 percent or more in the ownership or voting power of a corporation or business by a single foreign interest either alone or together with associates, or an interest of 40 per- cent or more in aggregate in the ownership or voting power of a corporation or business by two or more foreign interests and their associates. 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA The foreign inves tment exam ina t ion process centers on three broad requ iremen ts concern ing economic bene- fits, the provision of opportunities for Aus tra l ian parti- c ipa t ion, and specific Au s t r a l i an equ i ty pa r t ic ipa t ion guidelines for certain sectors. Foreign inves tment pro- posals are examined on a case-by-case bas is by the Government to ensure that they demons tra te economic benefits to Aus t ra l ia. The economic benef i ts are assessed in very broad terms cover ing such factors as more eff ic ient use of resources, in t roduc t ion of new techno l- ogy, indu s t ry ra t iona l iza t ion, and price-cost bene f i t s. It is recognized, however, that these economic bene f i ts have to be balanced aga inst c o n t i n u i ng c omm u n i ty concern that the degree of foreign ownership and control should be kept w i th in acceptable bounds. Government policy, therefore, seeks to ensure that g e n u i ne endeavors are made to provide oppor tun i t ies for Au s t r a l i ans to participate in the deve lopment of A u s t r a l i a 's indus t r ies and na tural resources. Specific equ i ty gu ide l ines ( u s u a l ly 50 percent Aus- tralian equity participation) are applied in respect of new na tural resource deve lopment projects. Proposals for the es tab l ishment of new bus inesses or projects in the m in ing (other than u r a n i um ), a g r i c u l t u r a l, pas tora l, f ish ing and forestry sectors invo lv ing a total inves tment of $A 5 m i l l ion or more w h i ch are not con trary to the national interest are, as a general ru l e, on ly allowed to proceed if there is a m i n im um 50 percent Au s t ra l ian equ i ty together w i th at least 50 percent of the vo t ing strength on the board or con t ro l l ing body of the project held by Au s t ra l ian in te res ts. Proposals to establish new businesses in the nonbank f inanc ial sector, to acqu ire rural properties, and to develop real estate area, in certain c i rcum s tance s, are also subject to spec if ic A u s t r a l i an e q u i ty pa r t ic ipa t ion requ iremen ts. Requ iremen ts for Au s t ra l ian e q u i ty are, however, administered in a f l ex ib le manne r; the ex tent of Aus- tralian participation being sought is made sub ject to the particular commercial and other c i rcums tances of each case. In pa r t icu la r, there is a concern t h at the un av a i l a- b i l i ty of su f f ic ient Au s t ra l ian equ i ty cap i tal on rea- sonable commercial terms and conditions should not u n d u ly delay the deve lopment of Au s t r a l i a 's resources and indus t r ies. Foreign inves tment po l icy also prov ides an incen t ive for the "na tura l iza t ion" of p redom inan t ly fo re ign -owned companies. This process is an en t i re ly vo lun ta ry one for those companies wh ich choose to increase the level of Australian participation in the ir Aus tra l ian operations. Companies that elect to par t ic ipa te in these a r rangemen ts are entitled to certain bene f i ts w h i le they are n a tu- ra l iz ing. They may be accorded prior credit for ach iev ing majority Aus t ra l ian owne rsh ip, thereby fac i l i ta t ing the ir participation in certain new projects and v en tu r e s, subject to Aus t ra l ian equ i ty par t ic ipa t ion gu ide l ine s. In the adm in is tra t ion of po l i cy, every effort is made to avoid unnecessary interference in normal commerc ial processes. A l though recogn i t ion is g iven to the special 70 cha rac te r i s t ics and c i rcums tances that may arise in i n d i v i d u al cases, the policy is s tr ic t ly nond iscr im ina tory as to the country of origin of investors. Fore ign-con tro l led compan ies incorporated in Aus- t r a l i a, or opera t ing in Au s t r a l ia as loca l ly registered fore ign compan ies, may raise funds for their local requ i remen ts in the Au s t r a l i an cap i tal marke t. Such fore ign compan ies proposing to borrow locally are inv i ted to cons ider a l te rna t ive sources of f in an c ing, in c lud ing the ra is ing of local equ i ty by means of new share issues or other p lacemen ts .4 Gold There are no restrictions on residents own ing, buy ing, or se l l ing gold and gold coin in Au s t ra l ia. Residents may export and import go ld, subject to normal customs procedures. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement March 8. The Aus t ra l ian dollar was devalued by 10 percent aga inst its peg level on a trade-weighted basket of cu r renc ies, r e s u l t i ng in a m idd le rate of $A1 = US$0.8549, or a deprec ia t ion of 9.9 percent compared w i th the m i d d le rate on the p rev ious day. October 28. It was announced th a t, beg inn ing from October 3 1, the U . S. do l lar rate determined each mo rn ing by the Reserve Bank on the basis of a trade- we igh ted basket wou ld be used for ind ica t ive purposes on ly; the b a n ks wou ld be free to deal w i th customers at m u t u a l ly nego t ia ted ra tes, w h i le end-of-day settlements w i th the Reserve Bank wou ld be effected at a rate ref lec t ing the trade-we igh ted index announced that mo rn ing and movemen ts in exchange rates in in t e rn a t ion al ma rke ts d u r i ng the d ay. In add i t ion, the Reserve Bank wou ld cease to quo te forward marg ins and wou ld no longer requ i re the banks to clear their net fo rwa rd pos i t ions at the close of each day w i th the Reserve B a n k. December 9. It was announced that the practice of a n n o u n c i ng an exchange rate based on a trade-weighted basket of currenc ies was be ing d i scon t inued, and that from December 12, 1983, the exchange rate would be le ft free to be de term ined by market forces, although the Reserve Bank wou ld re ta in d iscre t ionary power to in te rvene in the fore ign exchange ma rke t. Imports and Import Payments January 1. A trade agreement for closer economic re la t ions w i th New Zealand came in to e f fec t, providing for the e l im i n a t i on of t a r i f fs of 5 percent or less, a phased reduc t ion of o ther t a r i f f s, the phased removal of quan- t i t a t ive res tr ic t ions on impor ts from New Zealand by 1995, and the phased removal of New Zealand's perfor- mance-based export incen t ives w i th respect to goods shipped to A u s t r a l i a. 4More d e t a i ls of A u s t r a l i a 's fo r e ign i n v e s tm e nt po l icy a re contained in a g o v e r nm e nt d o c um e nt Australia's Foreign Investment Policy—A Guide for Investors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution December 12. Restrictions on the t im ing of import payments were abolished. Payments for Invisibles December 12. Restrictions on the timing of inv is ib le payments were abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. A trade agreement for closer economic relations with New Zealand came into effect, providing for the elimination of tar iffs of 5 percent or less, a phased reduction of other ta r i f fs, and the phased removal of quantitative restrictions on exports to New Zealand by 1995. December 12. Restrictions on dealing w i th export receipts were abolished. Nonresident Accounts December 12. Financial ins t i tu t ions were permitted to offer accounts denominated in foreign currency. AUSTRALIA Capital December 12. Trad ing banks were authorized to approve app l ica t ions for the repatriation of capital by nonresidents. The requ irement to obtain approval for borrowing agreement w i th residents of nonscheduled countries was removed. Controls were lifted on interest- bear ing inves tmen ts by nonresidents, w i th the exception of gove rnmen ts, gove rnment agencies, and foreign b a n k s, i n c l u d i ng cen tral bank s. In add i t ion, except where residents of scheduled countries were invo lved, approval wou ld no longer be required for the underwr i t- ing and subunderwr i t ing of foreign issues by residents and for the issue of guarantees by residents in favor of nonres iden ts, or by nonresidents in favor of residents; in the case of the latter proposals, account wou ld, however, be taken of the screening requirements of the Foreign Investment Review Board. 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Aus tr ia is the Aus t r ian Sch i l l ing. W i thout assum ing any formal ob l iga t ions, the authorities aim at ma in ta in ing a stable relation w i th the currencies participating in the European Monetary System (EMS ). Forward prem iums and d iscoun ts are, in pr inc ip le, left to the interplay of market forces. On December 31, 1983 the authorized banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were S 19.291 and S 19.391, respectively, per US$1. There are no exchange taxes or subs id ies. Austria formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Austrian National Bank administers exchange control and issues exchange licenses where required. Most exchange transactions are effected through Aus- trian banks authorized to implement the exchange con- trol regulations. The customs authorities issue freely and w i thout delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licenses, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained from the relevant m in i s t ry, v i z ., the Federal M in is t ry of Trade, Commerce, and Indu s t ry (Licensing Office) for indus t r ial products or the Federal M in is t ry of Agr icu l ture and Forestry for ag r icu l tu ral products. For products f a l l i ng under monopo ly, licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of F inance. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th all coun tr ies may be made e i ther in convertible currencies or through Free S ch i l l ing Ac- coun ts. The exchange control regu la t ions genera l ly are based on the distinction between member countries of the IMF or the OECD w i th wh ich settlements take place in convertible currencies and other countries w i th wh ich settlements are made in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts, Interim Accounts for nonresidents residing in member countries of the IMF or the OECD, and Blocked Accounts for nonres iden ts residing in other coun tr ies. Free Schilling Accounts may be freely opened by Austrian credit ins t i tu t ions on behalf of nonres iden ts w i thout any forma l i ty other than a check by the credit . ins t i tu t ion of the nonresident s ta tus of the bene f ic ia ry when the sch i l l ing funds are obtained from the se l l ing of freely convertible foreign currencies at a domestic credit in s t i tu t ion. Such accounts may be freely credited w i th proceeds from the sale of convertible currencies by a nonresident to the Austrian National Bank, or to an authorized bank, as well as w i th payments permitted by 72 the National Bank on the basis of a general or individual au thor iza t ion. The accounts may be freely debited for paymen ts to Aus tr ian residents, who mu s t, however, apply for ind iv idual licenses if they are to receive loans from nonresidents. Balances may be freely converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Interim Accounts and Blocked Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonres iden ts. General licenses permit the ir use for paymen ts for many current and some capital t ransac t ions. The transfer abroad of f u n ds in In te r im Accoun ts and Blocked Accoun ts is subject to an i n d i v i d u al l icense. U s u a l l y, licenses are granted freely if the f u n ds be long to res iden ts of coun tr ies th at are members of the IMF or the OECD. Non re s iden ts may also m a i n t a in non res ident accounts in conve r t ib le fore ign currenc ies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts and are subject to the same cond i t ions. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not inc luded in the Annexes to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country w i thout quan t i ta t ive res tr ic t ion. All goods inc luded in the Annexes require licenses but most are free of qu an t i t a t ive res tr ic t ion. For m any goods l icenses are granted by the cus toms, at the t ime of c learance, irrespective of the coun t ry they are imported f r om .' N e a r ly a ll imports from GATT coun- t r ies, th e ir associated territories, and some other coun- t r ies2 are l ibe ra l ized. A u s t r i a 's GATT l ibe ra l iza t ion is applied wo r ldw ide, except in respect of certain textiles and c lo th ing as def ined in A r t ic le X I I, Section 1, of the Arrangement Rega rd ing In te rna t ional Trade in Textiles. The impor ta t ion of coffee and sugar is governed by the 'Goods l i b e r a l i z ed for impo rt from a g i v en group of coun t r i es may be f ree ly imported from any c o u n t ry in the g roup, p rov ided that the c o u n t ry of expo r ta t ion and the c o u n t ry of p rodu c t ion of the goods invo lved are in the same group. 2The f u ll l i st is as f o l l ow s: A l g e r i a, Ando r r a, Ango l a, A n t i g ua and B a r b u d a, A r g e n t i n a, A u s t r a l i a, B a h am a s, B a h r a i n, B a n g l a d e s h, Bar- bados, B e l g i um, B e l i z e, B e n i n, Bo t sw an a, B r a z i l, B u rm a, B u r u n d i, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central A f r ican R e p u b l i c, Chad, C h i l e, Co lomb ia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark ( i n c l u d i ng Faeroe I s l ands and G r e e n l a n d ), D om i n i c a, Dom in i c an R e p u b l i c, Ecuador, Egyp t, Equ a to r i al G u i n e a, F i j i, F i n l a n d, France, Gabon, T he Gamb ia, Federal R e p u b l ic of G e rm a n y, Gh an a, Greece, G renada, Gu inea- B i s sau, G u y a n a, H a i t i, Ice land, I n d i a, Indones ia, I re land, Israel, I ta ly, Ivory Coast, J am a i c a, Democ ra t ic K am p u c h e a, K e n y a, K i r i b a t i, Korea, K u w a i t, Leso tho, L u x em b o u r g, Madagascar, M a l aw i, Ma lay- s ia, M a l d i v e s, M a l i, M a l t a, M a u r i t a n i a, M a u r i t i u s, Mozamb ique, Ne the r lands, New Zea land, N ica ragua, N iger, N iger ia, Norway, Om a n, P a k i s t a n, Papua N ew G u i n e a, P e ru, P h i l i p p i n e s, Portugal, Qa ta r, R w a n d a, S t. L u c i a, S t. V i n c e nt and G r e n a d i n e s, Sao Tome and P r i n c i p e, Senega l, S e y c h e l l e s, Sierra Leone, S ingapore, Solomon I s l and s, Sou th A f r i c a, Sp a in, S ri Lanka, Su r in am e, Swaz i land, Sweden, Sw i t z e r l and, Tanzan ia, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, T u n i s i a, T u r k e y, T u v a l u, U g a n d a, U . S . S . R ., U n i t ed A rab Em i ra te s, U n i t ed K i n g d om, U n i t ed S ta tes, Upper V o l t a, U r u g u a y, V a n u a t u, Peop le's Democ ra t ic R e p u b l ic of Y em e n, Y u g o s l a v i a, Zaire, Zamb ia, and Z imb abw e. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution international agreements for these commodities. Non- liberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trading, global quotas, bilat- eral quotas, discretionary licensing, and compensation (barter). State trading covers tobacco in any form, ethyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas apply to specified imports from GATT countries; such quotas apply only to potato, wheat, and corn starch, preserved meat, wine, and certain medicaments. Discretionary individ- ual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above, including im- ports of certain textiles from specified countries. Li- censes are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries. Grains, milk and butter, and cattle, pigs, sheep, goats, and horses for slaughter and products from these animals for human consumption are imported in accordance w i th a special system of controls and regulations maintained under the Agricultural Marketing Law and the law governing livestock farming and trading, and the mar- keting of livestock produce (Viehwirtschaftsgesetz). Cer- tain agricultural products are subject to import levies. In some cases, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received export certificates from the countries of their trading partners. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended for periods of three months at a time. Payments for imports from, and originating in, countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies do not require exchange licenses. Under the 1982 Customs Preference Act, which covers the second ten-year period of the Austrian Scheme of Generalized Preferences, special treatment is provided for imports from the 31 least developed countries as defined by the UN General Assembly; the list of products eligible for preferential treatment has also been extended under the Act. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions, residents are permitted to conclude transactions involving current invisibles w i th residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Exceptions comprise certain transactions con- cerning transport and insurance. Most transactions in current invisibles that involve payments to residents of other countries (e .g ., freight, commissions, and the cost of assembly and repairs) are covered by general licenses; for the remaining transactions, individual licenses are required. Payments on account of generally authorized invis- ibles to nonresidents may be made freely, provided that no capital transfer is involved. Other payments abroad up to S 2,000 may be made freely and at any time. The remaining payments on account of invisibles to countries other than members of the IMF and the OECD w i th which settlements are made in convertible currencies require special licenses. Residents traveling to countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may buy AUSTRIA exchange from authorized banks or may obtain, as short- term advances from nonresidents in multilateral coun- tries, up to the equivalent of S 26,000 for each trip. Should a resident require more foreign exchange for traveling, additional amounts may be authorized by the National Bank. In addition, Austrian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for accommodation and food, as well as transportation. Persons leaving Austria may take w i th them S 15,000 in Austrian notes and coin and any amount in foreign notes and coin. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained from the relevant ministry or, at the time of clearance, from the customs authorities. Goods exported under barter arrangements are subject to licensing by the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. For most other exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant bilateral trade agreements and the fu l f i l lment of quotas estab- lished in accordance w i th such agreements, and for the needs of the Austrian economy. Export claims exceeding the equivalent of S 50,000 must be declared. Export proceeds may either be surrendered or be deposited in accounts w i th authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for authorized payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be declared w i th in eight days from the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be deposited with an authorized bank and subsequently are used in the same way as proceeds accruing from exports. Persons entering Aus- tria may br ing in Austrian or foreign bank notes and coin w i thout l im i t. Capital The acquisition by nonresidents of Austrian securities, shares and participations in Austrian companies, and Austrian real estate is covered by a general license. In certain provinces, the acquisition of real estate is subject to the approval of the local authorities. Direct invest- ments by nonresidents are also permitted by general authorization, if made w i th convertible currencies or from free or originally owned blocked schilling balances; for investments financed in other ways, authorization is granted on the merits of each case. Loans and credits extended by nonresidents to resi- dents, inc lud ing those in schillings from Free Schilling Accounts, at present require prior approval by the National Bank and many are restricted. Approvals are granted generally, but not exc lus ive ly, for (1) investment credits for productive enterprises, (2) import and export finance, and (3) loans from nonresident relatives to residents. Import credit w i th a maturity customary in the trade concerned is licensed freely. 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA The short-term foreign assets and liabilities of autho- rized banks in convertible currencies are not subject to l im i ta t ion. The Na t ional Bank licenses f inanc ial loans with ma tur i t ies of more than one year to nonresidents only to the extent of funds made available through the redemption of such loans outstanding at the end of December of the previous year, plus 15 percent. A number of authorized banks are permitted to accept convertible currencies from abroad for interbank on- lending abroad at maturities of up to five years. Mortgage loans, export finance credits, and loans to Aus tr ian subsidiaries abroad are not subject to this l im i t. Transactions and operations mentioned in the follow- ing three paragraphs are licensed upon documentation, provided that they are concluded w i th residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. The National Bank permits the transfer abroad of (1) proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of various foreign investments in Austria (shares or participations in Aus- trian enterprises, Austrian securities, and real estate in Austria) and (2) repayments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants and pay- ments due to nonresidents on account of dowries, inheri- tances, and settlements under certain agreements be- tween heirs are permitted. Residents may also grant loans to nonresident relatives, provided that the lender draws on his own resources. Residents are allowed, for purposes of direct invest- men t, to acquire participation rights in foreign compa- nies, associations, and other enterprises, and to estab- lish, acquire, or extend foreign agencies or ind iv idua l ly owned firms; earnings accruing from such investment usua l ly may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad for the purpose of establish- ing a secondary residence, that is, intended for the personal use of the buyer w i th in one year, to grant commercial or investment credits (provided tha t, in the latter case, the proceeds of the credit are used w i th in Aus tr ia), to grant direct investment loans (provided that the resident can actually exert in f luence on the manage- ment of the nonresident enterprise), and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad. Domestic insurance companies may conclude l ife insurance con- tracts in Austria w i th nonresidents. Residents are allowed to purchase from nonresidents, w i thout restriction, foreign securities issued in member countries of the IMF or OECD w i th wh ich settlements take place in convertible currencies and registered on stock exchanges3 and Austrian securities; for foreign securities and Austrian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized 3The general license does not apply to the purchase by residents from nonresidents of securities of a par t ic ipa t ing nature in wha tever legal form ( i n c l u d i ng shares) that are issued by foreign inves tment funds or by s im i lar in s t i tu t ions of whatever k ind wh ich assemble assets for the purpose of risk spreading. I n d i v i d u al licenses are issued au toma t ica l ly when the purchase takes place on a recognized foreign stock exchange or when the issu ing in s t i tu t ion is subject to adequate surve i l lance. 74 banks and, w i th certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of securities listed on the V ienna Stock Exchange), the securities purchased must be kept with such banks. Payments for these purchases to nonresidents may be made in convertible currencies. Residents may sell foreign securities and Austrian external bonds to nonresi- dents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and, for securities deposited with Austrian authorized banks, only through such banks. Gold Transactions in gold (excluding jewelry and medal- lions, which are considered jewe lry) are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. The National Bank is authorized by this law to deal in gold as defined therein; the Bank has granted a number of general permissions widely liberalizing the domestic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coin, except in transactions with monetary authorities of other countries or w i th interna- tional f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions. The Bank has authorized credit in s t i tu t ion s, exchange offices, and coin dealers to buy or sell in Aus tr ia on their own behalf or on behalf of their customers ( inc lud ing nonresidents) gold coin that is not legal tender; the prices are based on those for coin and unmanu fac tu red gold in free markets abroad. A general license also permits other residents to purchase and sell among themselves, in Austria and against payment in sch i l l ings, gold coin that is not legal tender. The M int releases certain types of gold coin (restrikes) to authorized credit ins t i tu t ions for resale to the public. It has also issued a commemorative gold coin with a face value of S 1,000, which is legal tender. Residents may hold gold in any form, inc lud ing bars, in Austria, and they may acquire in Austria any gold coin that is not legal tender and any gold medals or medallions; further- more, domestic trading between residents in gold with a fineness of less than 0.585 is unrestricted. With the exception of coin, medals, and gold w i th a fineness of less than 0.585, the acquisition from residents of gold subject to the Foreign Exchange Law is reserved for the monetary authorities, authorized industrial users, den- tists, and jewelers; the M in t, gold refiners, and jewelers are permitted to trade or exchange gold in any form among themselves. Domestic sales of gold coins that are not legal tender are subject to value-added tax at the general rate of 18 percent. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the license is issued either by the Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry to industrial users or by the customs office concerned, wh ich issues licenses auto- matically for certain gold imports w i th in its jurisdiction. Where this law does not require an import license (e.g., for the import of gold bars), the Foreign Exchange Law prescribes a license issued by the National Bank cover- ing the purchase of gold. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require authorization by the National Bank; the Bank has issued a general license permitting nonresident travelers to take out coin that is not legal ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tender up to a weight of 200 grams a person a trip, and allowing resident travelers to specified member countries to export such coin up to a value of S 2,000 a person a trip. The National Bank's imports and exports do not require import, exchange, or export licenses. Commer- cial imports of jewelry and of articles containing a minor amount of gold, such as watches, are liberalized, licenses being issued automatically by the customs authorities; commercial exports of a number of such articles, however, must be licensed by the Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. Changes During 1983 Capital January 1. A regulation came into effect, specifying that foreign currency credits to nonresidents by domestic banks during 1983 should not be more than 15 percent of the stock of such credits outstanding at the end of 1982. AUSTRIA 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Bahamas is the Bahamian Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at B$l = US$1. The U .S. dollar circulates concurrently with the Bahamian dollar. The official buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar are B$l .0025 and B$1.0040, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted, the buying rate being based on the New York market mid-rate, and the selling rate 0.5 percent above the buying rate. The Central Bank of the Bahamas deals only w i th commercial banks. For transactions w i th the public, commercial banks are authorized to charge a commission of 0.50 percent buy ing and 0.75 percent selling, per US$1, and 0.50 percent buying or selling per £ stg. 1. These charges are additional to the Central Bank's charges. A stamp tax of B$0.07 is applied to all outward remittances where the amount is B$30 or less. A further tax of B$0.07 is levied on every additional B$30 or fraction thereof. There is also a market in wh ich "investment cur- rency" l may be negotiated between residents through an investment currency dealer at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market rate. On December 31, 1983 the bid and offer rates reflecting this premium were 21 percent and 26 percent, respectively. The Bahamas formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from December 5, 1973. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve allocations of foreign exchange for certain current payments; the approval authority for import payments, travel exchange, and cash gifts is not dele- gated, except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands. Import and export licenses are not required except for crawfish, conch, arms and ammun i t ion, and, in certain cases, industrial gold. The Department of Agriculture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and conch, and the Police Department issues import and export licenses for arms and ammun i t ion. Imports of industrial gold are licensed by the Central Bank. 'This is foreign currency in respect of which there is a general or specific central bank permission that it may be retained and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permission may exist in respect of foreign currency accruing to residents of the Bahamas from the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities or the sale, liquidation, redemption, or realization of property or of direct investments outside the Bahamas. The use of inves tment currency is prescribed for the purchase from nonresidents of foreign currency securities and the mak ing of direct investments outside the Bahamas. 76 Prescription of Currency The exchange control system of the Bahamas makes no distinction between foreign territories. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency2 or in Bahamian dollars through an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may freely open External Accounts denominated in Bahamian dollars for winter residents and for persons w i th residency permits but without work permits. With the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may also open External Accounts in Bahamian dollars for nonresident companies that have local expenses in the Bahamas and for nonresident investors. External Accounts in Bahamian dollars are normally funded entirely from foreign currency originat- ing outside the Bahamas, but income on registered investments may also be credited to these accounts with the Central Bank 's approval. Balances may be converted freely into foreign currency and transferred abroad.3 Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are designated Blocked Accounts. These are held mainly by emigrants. Where the value of an emigrant's assets exceeds B$25,000, the excess is credited to a Blocked Account. Balances on Blocked Accounts are transferable through the official exchange market after four years or through the investment currency market at any time; they may also be invested, w i th the Central Bank's approval, in certain resident-held assets or be spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The importation of certain commodities is prohibited or controlled because of health, social, or humanitarian reasons. All other goods may be imported without a license. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for making payments for imports, irrespective of origin;4 this approval is normally given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other relevant documents proving the existence of a purchase contract. Import du t ies vary from 0 to 200 percent, depending on the type of goods. Customs entries are subject to a stamp tax at a rate of 1 '/2 percent. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on current payments. Autho- rized dealers can make payments to nonresidents on 2Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Bahamian dollar. 3Persons of foreign n a t ion a l i ty who have been granted "temporary resident" status are treated in some respects as nonresidents but are not permitted to hold External Accounts. 4Except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands, where this au tho r i ty is delegated to clearing bank branches. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution behalf of residents for certain services and other inv is- ibles within specified l im i ts. Such payments inc lude freight, ships' disbursements, commissions, royalties, and insurance payments. Residents are en t i t led, on application to the Central Bank, to a foreign currency travel allowance of the equivalent of B$l,000 a person a year for tourist travel and of B$5,000 a person a year for genuine business or professional travel. The allowance of B$ 1,000 for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, wh ich are normally obtained against payment in Bahamian dollars to a travel agent in the Bahamas. Applications for foreign exchange in excess of these amounts must be referred to the Central B ank, which approves bona fide applications. Foreign ex- change facilities obtained for travel may not be retained abroad or be used abroad for purposes other than travel; any unused balance must be surrendered w i t h in a week of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, w i th in one week of his return to the Bahamas. Subject to adequate documentary evidence, an education allowance of up to B$6,000 a person an academic year is normally granted upon application. Applications for facilities in excess of this amount are referred to the Central Bank. Temporary residents may remit up to 50 percent of their wages and salaries, but where commitments outside the Bahamas are larger than 50 percent of wages and salaries, additional amounts may be remitted. A traveler may take out Baham ian banknotes not exceeding B$70 in value and notes of any other country not exceeding US$1,000 in va lue. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for c raw f ish, conch, and arms and ammun i t ion. The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six months of shipment; a l te rna t ive ly, export proceeds may be used in any manner acceptable to the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect w i thout delay all amounts due to them from nonresidents and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an authorized dealer without delay, but these requirements are seldom enforced. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign bank notes. The import of domestic bank notes is subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Capital All capital transfers to countries outside the Bahamas require exchange control approval and outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers do not require exchange control approval, a l though the subsequent utilization of the funds in the Bahamas may require authorization. The permission of the Central Bank is required in respect of any action whereby nonresidents acquire control of an incorporated company controlled by residents. Resident ind iv idu a ls and compa- BAHAMAS nies require the specific permission of the Central Bank to ma in ta in bank accounts outside the Bahamas.5 The use of o f f ic ial exchange for direct investment abroad is l im i t ed to B$ 100,000 or 30 percent of the total cost of the inves tmen t, wh ichever is greater, for invest- men ts from wh ich the add i t ional benefits expected to accrue to the balance of paymen ts from export receipts, profits, or other earnings w i t h in 18 months of the inves tment w i ll at least equal the total amount of inves tment and w i ll con t inue thereafter. Investments abroad that do not meet the above criteria may be f inanced by foreign currency borrowed on su i tab le terms subject to ind iv idu al approval by the Central Bank, the purchase of foreign currency in the inves tment currency marke t, or the use of retained profits of foreign sub- sidiary companies. Permission is not g iven for invest- ments that are l i k e ly to have adverse effects on the balance of paymen ts. In p r inc ip le, inward inves tment by nonresidents is unrestricted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Baham ian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Baham ian company to a nonresident. Special procedures apply to inves tmen ts in the form of purchase of real property, as specified under the Immov- able Property (A cqu i s i t ion by Foreign Persons) Ac t, 1981, wh ich came into effect on November 1, 1983: foreigners in t end ing to purchase land must make applica- tion to the Foreign Inves tmen ts Board, a group of seven designated m in is te rs of the Governmen t. If such applica- tion is approved, payment for the purchase may be made e i ther in Baham ian dollars from an External Account or in foreign currency. For all inves tmen ts w i th approved status, permission is g iven upon app l ica t ion for the transfer of profits and d iv idend s, representing earned t rad ing profits and invest- ment income. In the event of a sale or l iqu ida t ion, non res ident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, i n c l u d i ng any cap i tal appreciation, through the o f f ic ial fore ign exchange marke t. Res iden ts requ ire the specific approval of the Central Bank to buy property outside the Bahamas; such pur- chases, if for personal use, can be made on ly w i th inve s tment cu r rency, and approval is l im i ted to one property for each f am i l y. Any inc iden tal expenses connected w i th the purchase of property for personal use may no rm a l ly be met w i th inves tment currency; expendi- tures necessary for the ma in tenance of the property or a r is ing d i rec t ly from i ts ownersh ip may, w i th permis- sion, be met w i th foreign currency bought at the current market rate in the o f f ic ial foreign exchange market. The transfer of legacies and inheritances due to nonresident benef ic iar ies under w i l ls or intestacies of persons who were B ah am i an residents at the t ime of the ir death is pe rm i t ted. However, permission is not no rma l ly * B a n ks and t ru s ts es tab l ished in the Bahamas are exempt from certain exchange control r egu l a t ion s, p a r t i c u l a r ly w i th regard to th e ir offshore ope ra t ions. 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS given for Bahamian residents to settle any property, other than by w i l l, for the benefit of nonresidents. A resident may make cash gifts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$ 1,000 a donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, w i th permission, in special circumstances. Foreign nationals domiciled in the Bahamas, even if considered resident for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a measure-of exemption from certain exchange control obligations, notably w i th respect to the mandatory deposit of foreign currency securities and the surrender of certain other foreign capital assets. Nonresident buyers of Bahamian securities must pay for such purchases in Bahamian dollars from an External Account, in funds eligible for credit to an External Account, or in Bahamian dollars arising from the sale of foreign currency in the official foreign exchange market; interest, dividends, and capital payments on such securi- ties may not be remitted outside the Bahamas unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Bahamian residents are not permitted to purchase foreign currency securities w i th official exchange or out of export proceeds or other current earnings; payment must be made with investment currency. All purchases, sales, and switches of foreign currency securities in the Bahamas and all switches in foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents, wherever the switch takes place, require permission from the Central Bank, and all transactions must take place through authorized agents.6 All foreign securities purchased by residents of the Bahamas must be held to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other former Sterling Area countries are considered foreign currency securities, and sales proceeds of such securities held by residents, if regis- tered at the Central Bank by December 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the investment currency market; securities not so registered may be offered for sale at the official rate of exchange. Residents leaving the country with the intention of residing permanently outside the Bahamas are redesig- nated upon departure as nonresidents. Under normal rules persons leaving the Bahamas to take up residence elsewhere may transfer, at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market, up to B$25,000 of their Bahamian dollar assets to the new country of residence, and may also take normal household and personal effects with them. When the total value of their Bahamian dollar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is transferable through the official exchange market after four years, or through the investment currency market at any time. After a person's redesignation as a nonresi- dent, income accruing from his assets remaining in the Bahamas is normally remittable at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market. Residents other than authorized banks require permis- sion to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents, and 6These are 11 banks and trust companies authorized to deal in Bahamian and foreign currency securities and to receive securities in deposit. 78 authorized dealers are subject to exchange control directions w i th regard to their lending of foreign cur- rency to residents. Residents also require permission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, foreign currency loans by conversion of Bahamian dollars. When permission is granted for residents to accept foreign currency loans, such permission is normally conditional upon the currency being offered for sale w i thout delay to an authorized dealer, unless the funds are required to meet payments to nonresidents for which permission has been specifically given. A resident company that is wholly owned by nonresi- dents is not normally allowed to raise working capital in Bahamian dollars unless such funds are a small propor- tion of the total investment. If the company is partly owned by residents, the amount of such local currency borrowing is normally determined in relation to the nonresident interest in the equity of the company. Banks and other lenders resident in the Bahamas require permission before they extend loans in domestic cur- rency to any corporate body (other than a bank), which is resident in the Bahamas and is by any means controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by nonresidents. How- ever, companies that are set up by nonresidents primarily to import and distribute products manufactured outside the Bahamas are not normally allowed to borrow Bahamian dollars from residents either for fixed or working capital but must provide all their finance in foreign currency; borrowings in a foreign currency normally are permitted on application. Gold Residents of the Bahamas other than authorized dealers are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bullion. Those residents, however, who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, with the approval of the Central Bank, meet their current industrial requirements. Import licenses are freely issued by the Central Bank to industrial users. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bu l l ion or coin. Commercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a license. There is no import duty on gold bullion or gold coin; however, an import du ty of 32.5 percent is imposed on imports of gold jewelry from all sources. A 1.5 percent stamp tax payable to the customs is also payable on commercial shipments of gold jewelry from any source. There is no restriction on the acquisition or retention by residents of gold coin. The Bahamas has issued commemorative coins in denominations of B$10, B$20, B$50, B$100, B$150, B$200, B$250, B$ 1,000, and B$2,500 in gold, and B$10 and B$25 in silver; these are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1983 Gold June 16. In commemoration of the tenth anniversary of independence, the following coins were issued: B$50, B$100, B$2,500 in gold (proof), and a B$10 silver (proof), and a B$5 silver coin as part of a set of nine ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution coins; in addition, a B$10 silver coin was issued to commemorate the thirtieth anniversary of the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II. June 23. A B$ 1,000 gold coin was issued in honor of the Americas Cup Challenge Victory Syndicate. BAHAMAS 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bahrain is the Bahrain Dinar, which is pegged to the SDR at BD 0.476190 = SDR 1. Bahrain sets exchange rates for the Bahrain d inar w i th in margins of plus or m inus 7.25 percent of the fixed relationship between the Bahrain dinar and the SDR; in practice, the Bahrain d inar ma in ta ins a relatively stable relationship w i th the U .S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency. The middle rate of the Bahrain d inar for the U .S. dollar quoted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency is adjusted from time to time. The Agency also quotes daily rates for pounds sterling and deutsche mark based on the latest available rates for the U .S. dollar against those currencies. On December 31, 1983 the Agency's buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were BD 0.375 and BD 0.377, respectively, per US$1. The Agency does not deal with the pub l ic. In their dealings with the public, commercial banks are required to use the Agency's rates for U .S. dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche mark, but they are authorized to charge an exchange commission of 2 per m i ll (special rates of commission apply for transactions up to BD 1,000). The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the Agency's rates for the U .S. dollar and the New York market ra te-for the currency concerned against the U .S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Bahrain formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from March 20, 1973. Administration of Control The Agency is the exchange control au thor i ty, but there is no exchange control legislation in Bah ra in. No import or export licenses are required (except for arms and ammun i t ion, television cameras, and alcoholic beverages). However, importers and exporters must be registered w i th the commercial registry ma in ta ined by the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture and must be members of the Bahrain Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. Otherwise, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments or receipts. Nonresident Accounts A distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Offshore banking un i ts are not normally permitted to hold resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel are prohibited, as are products manufactured by foreign companies that are blacklisted 80 by the League of Arab States. Imports of a few commod- ities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, pub l ic policy, or security. Imports of cultured pearls also are proh ib i ted. Import licenses are required for arms and ammun i t ion, television cameras, and alcoholic bever- ages. Rice and sugar are, in practice, imported only by the Bahrain Import-Export Company. Exchange for payments in respect of permitted imports may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel are prohibited, and exports of certain refined petroleum products to South Africa have been suspended. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahrain any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel. Profits from foreign investments in Bahrain may be transferred abroad freely w i th the exception that under Article 72 of the Monetary Agency Law the banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of divi- dends and the remittance of their profits. Licensed offshore bank ing un i ts may freely engage in transactions w i th nonresidents; transactions with residents are not normally permitted. The Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture operates a center for the dissemination of informa t ion on the stock exchange. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewelry are subject to a 10 per- cent customs du ty but gold ingots are exempt. Brokerage business in gold (as well as other commodities) requires approval from the Bahrain Monetary Agency before registering w i th the Ministry of Commerce and Agricul- ture; such business is subject to a m in imum deposit requirement equivalent in the case of gold to BD 3,000 or 10 percent of the contract value, whichever is higher. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments February 7. Import duties on alcoholic beverages were raised from 70 percent to 100 percent. February 15. Import duties on automobiles were raised from 10 percent to 20 percent. March 1. In line with the agreement among member countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), internal taxes on locally produced goods were abolished, provided that the import content of such goods was at least 40 percent. September 1. As a first step toward a common market arrangement, the six member countries of the GCC, of which Bahrain is a member, introduced a uniform minimum and maximum import tariff of 4 percent and 20 percent, respectively, with the exception of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. In addition, import duties on certain durable goods were raised from 5 per- cent to 10 percent. Capital January 15. The Bahrain Monetary Agency reduced by 1 percentage point the maximum rate payable on deposits denominated in Bahrain dinars, and an increase of 0.5 percent over the new deposit rate was introduced for certificates of deposit denominated in Bahrain dinars and having a maturity of up to one year. August 14. A center for the dissemination of infor- mation on the stock exchange was established by the Ministry of Commerce and Agriculture. 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement* The currency of Bangladesh is the Bangladesh Taka. The value of the taka in terms of the U .S. do l lar, the intervention currency, is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of currencies. Changes in the exchange rate for the U .S. dollar are generally made when f luc tua t ions in the exchange rates between the U .S. dol- lar and the currencies in the basket exceed 1 percent in either direction. On December 31, 1983 the o f f ic ial (spot) m idd le rate of the taka in terms of the U .S. dollar was Tk 25.0 = US$1 .' On December 31, 1983 the spot buy ing and selling rates of the Bangladesh Bank (the central bank) for authorized dealers were Tk 24.97 and Tk 25.03, respectively, per US$1. On the same date the spot buy ing and selling rates (telegraphic transfers) of authorized dealers were Tk 24.9387 and Tk 25.0613, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for currencies other than the U .S. dollar are based on the U .S. do l lar closing rates in New York for the currencies concerned. A d ifferent effective exchange rate arises through the operation of the Wage Earners' Scheme and the Export Performance Licensing Scheme. Under the former scheme, exchange earnings remitted by workers abroad are auctioned or sold by the wage earners or the ir representatives to their eligible users on a bilateral basis at negotiated rates; foreign exchange purchased under this scheme may be used for specified imports, expendi- ture on foreign travel, and other approved purposes. Under the Export Performance Licensing Scheme, ex- porters of non trad i t ional products receive freely negoti- able import en t i t lement certificates that may be used for the same purposes; and certificates may also be sold in the secondary exchange markets. On December 30, 1983 the exchange rate in the secondary market was Tk 27.40 per US$1 buy ing, and Tk 39.12 = US$1 se l l ing. Forward transactions of the Bangladesh Bank are confined to purchases and sales of deutsche ma rk, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds s ter l ing, and U .S. dollars. Forward fac i l i t ies at au thor ized banks covering periods of up to six months are available in all approved foreign currencies for export proceeds and for import paymen ts. Forward exchange fac i l i t ies for three months are available for remittances of surp lus collection of foreign sh ipp ing companies and foreign a i r l ines. For settlement of transactions under the Asian Clearing Un ion, Bangladesh Bank purchases, both spot and forward, the currencies of the member coun tr ies of the Un ion ,2 as well as the Asian Monetary U n it (AMU ) ;3 it also sells these currencies for spot delivery. Upon payment of an annual premium of 2.5 percent, the exchange risk on pub l ic or private foreign currency loans that w i ll be f u l ly or par t ly disbursed by June 30, 1988 may be given forward exchange cover by the Bangladesh Bank under the Exchange Rate Fluctuation Bu rden Absorption Scheme. The fu ll amount of the exchange risk may be covered in respect of loans disbursed af ter J u ly 1, 1983, but the scheme applies to on ly a specified proportion of loans f u l ly disbursed prior to that date. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bangladesh Bank in accordance w i th general policy formulated in consu l ta t ion w i th the M in is t ry of Finance. The seven foreign and ten domestic commercial banks (of wh ich six are na t iona l ized), together w i th two joint-venture banks and three specialized f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s, have been appointed au thor ized dealers (authorized banks) in foreign exchange. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports of the M in i s t ry of Indus t ry and Commerce (Commerce D iv is ion) is responsible for the issuance of import licenses. Certain trade transactions are conducted through state-trading agencies, inc lud ing the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB). Prescription of Currency Se t t lemen ts w i th all countries are subject to exchange control. Se t t lemen ts w i th countries w i th wh ich Bangla- desh has commod i ty exchange agreements4 normally must be effected th rough nonconvertible U .S. dollar or pound s te r l ing accounts for goods and services specified in the agreements; se t t lement w i th these countries can be made in conver t ib le currencies for goods and services not specified in the agreements. Payments to, and receipts f rom, the other member countries of the Asian C lear ing Un ion in respect of current transactions (other than those re la t ing to petroleum and na tural gas and their products) must be effected in Asian monetary un i ts through the Clearing U n i o n .5 Settlements with other coun tr ies no rma l ly take place in sterling and other convertible currencies, and in few cases, through Non- resident Taka Accounts. Payments for imports may be made to the coun t ry of o r ig in of the goods or to any other coun t ry (w i th the exception of those countries from wh ich impo r ta t ion is proh ib i ted); they may be made (1) in taka for credit to a nonresident bank account in Bangladesh of the coun try concerned; (2) in the currency of the country concerned; or (3) in any freely convertible currency. Export proceeds must be received in freely conver t ib le foreign exchange or in taka from a Nonresi- dent Taka Accoun t. All settlements w i th Israel and South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. 'On February 23, 1984, the o f f ic ial (spot) m i d d le rate for the t aka was changed to Tk 25.20 = US$1. 2Members of the As ian Clearing Un ion are Bang ladesh, Bu rma, Ind i a, Islamic Repub l ic of Iran, Nepa l, Pak is tan, and Sri Lanka. 3The AMU is equ iv a l ent in va lue to the SDR and is used for recording the va lue of transactions passing through the U n i o n. 4B u l g a r i a, People's R epub l ic of Ch in a, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic R e p u b l i c, H u n g a r y, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Po land, Rom an i a, U .S .S .R ., and Yugos lav ia. 5The Bang ladesh Bank announces exchange rates between the Asian Mone tary U n it ( AM U) and the member coun t r ies' currencies twice a mon th. 82 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies resident in countries outside Bangladesh are designated Nonresident Accounts. All such accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the country in which the account holder is a permanent resident.6 Nonresident Accounts may be opened only with the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank. Speci- fied debits and credits to Nonresident Accounts may be made by authorized dealers without the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank during the absence of the account holder from Bangladesh. Certain other debits and credits may be made without the prior approval of the Bangla- desh Bank but are subject to reporting ex post. Convertible Taka Accounts. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission staffs, international nonprofit humanitarian organizations functioning in Bangladesh and their expatriate employees, foreign oil companies engaged in oil exploratory work, foreign contractors and consultants engaged in specific projects, and foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh regardless of their status are allowed to maintain Convertible Taka Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of inward remittances in convertible foreign exchange and may be debited freely and at any time for local disbursements in taka, as well as for remittances abroad in convertible currencies. Transfers between Convertible Taka Accounts are freely permitted. Foreign missions and embassies may open interest-bearing ac- counts, but the interest earned thereon can be disbursed only in local currency. Wage Earners' Scheme. Under the Wage Earners' Scheme, Bangladesh nationals and persons of Bangla- desh origin who are working abroad are permitted to open Foreign Currency Accounts denominated in pounds sterling or U .S. dollars. These accounts may be credited with (1) remittances in convertible currencies received from abroad through normal banking and postal chan- nels; (2) proceeds of convertible currencies (currency notes, traveler's checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Ban- gladesh by the account holders, provided they were declared to the customs upon arrival in Bangladesh; (3) transfers from other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme; and (4) trans- fers from nonresident foreign currency deposit accounts. The accounts may be debited, without restriction, but subject to reporting to the Bangladesh Bank, for the following purposes: (1) all local disbursements; (2) transfers to other Foreign Currency Accounts opened under the Wage Earners' Scheme; (3) payment for imports of specified goods against letters of credit; (4) payment of bank commissions and other bank charges connected with the handling of the accounts; and (5) travel expenditures abroad for business or private purposes up to the equivalent of US$200 a year for travel 6The accounts of the United Nations and its agencies are treated as resident accounts. BANGLADESH by air to Burma, India, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka, up to the equivalent of US$600 a trip for travel to other countries (for a max imum of three trips in one year), and up to US$150 a year for overland travel to India. Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. Bangladesh nationals and persons of Bangladesh origin may also open Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts, denominated in pounds sterling or U .S. dollars. These accounts, which range in term from one month to one year, may be credited, in initial minimum amounts of US$1,000 or £ stg. 500, with (1) remittances in convertible currencies and (2) transfers from existing Foreign Currency Accounts maintained under the Wage Earners' Scheme. The banks pay interest on balances in these accounts at rates prevailing in the local money market for taka deposits. The balance, including interest earned, may be transferred in foreign exchange by the account holder to his country of residence or anywhere he chooses; the account holder, if he is not otherwise ineligible under the Wage Earners' Scheme, may also transfer the balance to any Foreign Currency Account maintained under the Wage Earners' Scheme. The balances in the accounts, which are freely convertible into taka at the official rate, must be reported monthly to the Bangladesh Bank and the accounts must be closed w i th in six months or on maturity of the deposit, whichever is later, upon the taking up of permanent residence by the account holder in Bangladesh. Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or with foreign aid, loans, and barter arrange- ments. Imports other than foodgrains, fertilizers, and items financed by project aid are licensed within the framework of an annual import policy (import budget). Under the Import Policy Order for the fiscal year 1983/84 (Ju ly to June), items that may be imported were classified into four broad categories: (1) goods imported by "commercial importers"; (2) items imported by the TCB; (3) items which are exclusively importable under the Wage Earners' Scheme, or the Export Performance Licensing Scheme; and (4) industrial raw and packing materials imported by different industrial sectors. The Import Policy Order prohibits or restricts imports of factory rejects, goods of substandard qua l i ty, used items, and materials inimical to public order or religious beliefs. Import licenses are required by industrial consumers for the importation of raw materials, packing materials, spare parts, capital machinery, and for importation under the Export Performance Licensing Scheme. Letter of credit authorization forms are required for the importa- tion of commercial items, industrial raw and packaging materials and spare parts, machinery, accessories, and spares against specific allocations, goods and commodi- ties imported by public sector importers, and items under the Export Performance Licensing Scheme. Importers intending to import goods under the Wage Earners' Scheme are required to obtain an Import Registration 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH Certificate for purposes of customs clearance. These documents are issued by a licensing office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. Single country licenses or letter of credit authorization forms are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments agreements and for imports under aid programs. Other import licenses and letter of credit authorization forms are va l id worldwide, except that imports from Israel and South Africa and imports transported on the flag vessels of Taiwan,t Israel, and South Africa are prohibited. For shipment of imports under cash and the Export Perfor- mance Licensing Scheme, the validity of licenses and letter of credit authorization forms are as follows: ( 1 ) 11 months from the date of registration of a letter of credit authorization form for commercial items and indus tr ial raw and packing materials; and (2) 17 months from the date of registration of letters of credit authorization form for the importation of capital machinery and spare parts. If these documents lapse for reasons beyond the control of the importer they may be revalidated by the licensing authority. Authorized dealers may, subsequent to the month of registration of the above documents, allow remittances w i th in a period of 12 mon ths for the importation of commercial items and indus tr ial raw materials and packing materials and up to 18 months for the importation of capital machinery and spare parts. If the importers require further t ime to make remittances, then authorized dealers may allow such remittances only under the Wage Earners' Scheme or, if applicable, against the surrender of licenses issued under the Export Performance Licensing Scheme, whichever the importer chooses. The validity period of licenses and letter of credit authorization forms issued for imports under aid, loans, and barter is announced from time to t ime. Payment against imports is generally permissible only under cover of irrevocable letters of credit. Under the Wage Earners' Scheme a provision exists for the importation of a large number of items against letters of credit opened on a deferred payments basis. The same provision is also available for the importation of all raw materials, spare parts, and consumer goods against import licenses and letter of credit authorization forms issued against the cash foreign exchange resources of the country or under the Export Performance Licensing Scheme. The deferred payment period is usua l ly up to a max imum of 120 days, except for recognized organiza- tions under the specialized hosiery u n it in the textile industry, operating under a warehouse system in wh ich the deferred payment period may be up to 180 days. The opening of import letters of credit is subject to margin requirements ranging from a m in imum of 5 percent to a maximum of 25 percent for industrial and commercial imports by the private sector; similar margin require- ments also apply to opening letters of credit for imports of crude degummed soybean oil by the vegetable oil refineries in the private sector. The m i n im um require- ment for imports of other specified items by commercial t See Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 52. 84 importers is 25 percent. Imports of books and periodicals up to specified l im i ts are permissible on a consignment basis. Pub l ic sector importers, however, may import on a cash-against-documents basis. The licensing of imports of specified raw materials and packing ma ter ia ls by indus t r ial consumers is, subject to the ava i lab i l i ty of f u n d s, governed by an en t i t lement system, based on the requirements for various industries during each import program period as established by the Director-General of Indus tr ies. Firms in the indus tr ial sector are given an en t i t lement for importation of specified raw materials and packing materials, and licenses are issued on the basis of the en t i t l em en t. The en t i t lement system does not app ly, however, to raw materials and pack ing ma ter ia ls that are imported under either the Wage Earners' Scheme or the Export Perfor- mance Licensing Scheme. Separately, indus t r ial con- sumers may be granted import licenses for parts and accessories of mach ine ry. Goods imported against licenses issued to indus t r ial consumers must be used in the indus t ry concerned and must not be sold or trans- ferred w i thout prior approval. Under the Export Performance Licensing Scheme all registered exporters (other than those of ju t e, ju te goods exc lud ing carpets, and loose tea) are en t i t led to apply to Bangladesh Bank for issuance of Import En t i t lement Certificates. These certificates, wh ich are freely negoti- able and have a v a l id i ty period of six mon ths, may be converted in to import licenses for the importation of goods e l ig ib le und er the system. The en t i t lemen ts are 80 percent and 60 percent of the f .o .b. va lue of exports, depend ing on the domestic va lue added in the export product. Any new product en ter ing the export market w i ll au toma t ica l ly be granted a 40 percent en t i t lement rate pending determination of the actual percentage of en t i t lemen t. Foreign exchange for licensed imports is provided au toma t ica l ly by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance paymen ts for imports require approval by the Bangladesh Bank, wh ich no rma l ly is given on ly for specialized or cap i tal goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected w i th authorized trade transactions generally are not restricted. Payments for most other inv is ib les require prior approval and are restricted. App l ica t ions for foreign exchange for busi- ness travel, medical treatment, and education abroad are considered on an i n d i v i d u al basis; as a ru l e, for business travel exporters w i th export earn ings of Tk 2.5 m i l l ion or more du r ing the preceding year are en t i t led to 1 percent of the f .o .b. va lue of the ir exports, subject to a m ax imum US$10,000 a year; those w i th export earnings of less than Tk 2.5 m i l l i on dur ing the preceding year are en t i t led to an allowance of US$80 a day for a max imum of 30 days a year; for med ical trea tment the amount granted is US$1,000 at the official rate and up to US$3,000 at the rate under the Wage Earners' Scheme. A Bangladesh national proceeding abroad by air is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution allowed to purchase foreign exchange from a Foreign Currency Account under the Wage Earners' Scheme, subject to certain limits (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Foreign nationals working in Bangla- desh must obtain approval before making remittances abroad for family maintenance; such approval is usually granted for up to 50 percent of wages or salaries, subject to a maximum of £ stg. 200 a month (net of tax) for nationals of countries other than India, and up to Tk 1,500 for Indian nationals, if the terms of employ- ment have been approved by the Government. Nonresident travelers may take out the foreign cur- rency and traveler's checks they declared on entry less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money chang- ers; they may also, without obtaining the approval of the Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 1,000 into convertible foreign currencies at the time of their exit. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency and traveler's checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they have been granted. Bangladesh nationals may take out Tk 100 in domestic currency; otherwise, the export of Bangladesh currency notes and coin is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa and exports transported on the flag vessels of Taiwant are pro- hibited. The proceeds from exports must be received within four months of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered, but Bangladesh nationals working abroad may retain their earnings in Foreign Currency Accounts or in Nonresi- dent Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. All Bangla- desh nationals who are resident in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming into their posses- sion, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer within one month of the date of acquisition. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continuously for more than six months are required to surrender any foreign exchange representing their earn- ings abroad in respect of business conducted in Bangla- desh or services rendered, within one month of the date of acquisition. The import of Bangladesh currency notes and coin exceeding Tk 100 is prohibited. Foreign currency traveler's checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in by nonresident travelers without limit, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival; no declaration is required for import of foreign exchange not exceeding US$150 by nonresidents or US$25 by residents. Capital All outward transfers of capital require approval; such approval is not normally granted in respect of resident- owned capital. Inward capital transfers also require t See Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 52. BANGLADESH approval. Movable and immovable assets, including foreign exchange, owned in any country other than Bangladesh have to be declared to the Bangladesh Bank by resident Bangladeshis. There is no restriction on the importation of securities into Bangladesh, but the trans- fer of securities in favor of a person resident outside Bangladesh requires approval. This requirement applies to all Bangladesh securities, whether held by residents or not, and to all foreign securities held by residents. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and overdrafts from overseas branches and correspondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time. Borrowing abroad by resident nonbank firms of Bangla- desh origin requires approval. Borrowing by nonresi- dent-owned or nonresident-controlled enterprises from commercial banks in Bangladesh beyond specified ceil- ings, as well as any borrowing from abroad, requires approval, and loans by authorized dealers in local currency against overseas guarantees or collateral out- side Bangladesh also require approval. Authorized deal- ers may, however, approve loans, overdrafts, or credit facilities against goods intended for export from Bangla- desh to companies controlled by persons resident outside Bangladesh. Authorized dealers must obtain approval before making any loans in foreign currencies to resi- dents or nonresidents, whether secured or unsecured. They are not normally permitted to hold short-term foreign assets other than small working balances. The permission of the Bangladesh Bank is required for nonresidents other than banks to establish or continue a business in Bangladesh. Foreign private investment is governed by the Foreign Private Investment (Promotion and Protection) Act of 1980 and is permitted in collab- oration with both the Government and private entrepre- neurs. The Act provides, inter alia, for protection and equitable treatment of foreign private investment, indemnification, protection against expropriation and nationalization, and guarantee for repatriation of invest- ment. In the private sector, however, foreign partici- pation is limited to those industries where technical know-how is not locally available, where the technology involved is very complicated, or where capital outlay is high, and to industries that are either based on local raw materials or that are wholly export oriented. For a new investment, foreign investors generally are required to provide as equity capital the entire amount of the project's foreign exchange component. There is no ceiling on private investment, but investment above Tk 100 million needs special approval. Tax holidays are granted for periods of up to nine years, depending on location. All foreign investments require approval by the Investment Board. Dividends on foreign capital may be remitted freely after payment of taxes. Gold The import and export of gold or silver in any form are prohibited without special permission, which is not normally granted. There are no restrictions on the internal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH ornaments ( inc lud ing coin) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in any other form except by licensed indus t r ia l is ts or dentists. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement January 11. The exchange rate for the taka was changed to Tk 24.50 = US$1 (m idd le rate), and the intervention currency was changed from the pound sterling to the U .S. dollar. Exchange rates for currencies other than the U .S. dollar wou ld be determined on the basis of closing rates in New York. February 14. Exporters having contracts in pounds sterling w i thout forward exchange cover du r ing the period from August 24, 1982 to Janua ry 10, 1983 were given the option to receive payments at the predevalua- tion exchange rate for the pound sterling. (Subsequen t ly the option was extended to cover contracts booked on January 11, 1983; and made applicable to exporters w i th forward exchange cover.) March 17. Forward cover facilities were extended to include short-term foreign currency loans of jo in t- venture firms w i th foreign participation and branches of foreign firms operating in Bang ladesh. May 9. Forward facilities of the Bangladesh Bank were extended to include sales of deutsche mark and Japanese yen. May 23. The m a x im um period for forward exchange coverage for imports under loans, credits, and grants was changed to six mon ths, or one mon th from the date of shipment, whichever was earlier. July 1. The Exchange Rate F luc tua t ion Burden Ab- sorption Scheme was ins t i tu ted to enable pub l ic and private sector borrowers, on payment of an annual premium of 2.5 percent, to cover themselves against exchange risk on loans denominated in foreign currency. The scheme was applicable to all foreign currency loans fu l ly or partly disbursed by June 30, 1988, as well as to a specified proportion of loans f u l ly disbursed prior to July 1, 1983. The exchange risk on loan repayments overdue by June 30, 1983 could, under specified cond i t ions, be covered under the scheme in the form of preferential shares or debentures issued by borrowers in favor of the relevant lend ing ins t i tu t ion. (The scheme was scheduled to become operational early in 1984.) August 28. The exchange rate for the taka was changed to Tk 24.55 = US$1. September 23. The exchange rate for the taka was changed from Tk 24.55 = US$1 to Tk 24.75 = US$1. October 12. The exchange rate for the taka was changed from Tk 24.75 = US$1 to Tk 25.0 = US$1. December 19. The Bangladesh Bank initiated spot and forward transactions in French francs. Prescription of Currency March 4. The twe l f th barter protocol between Bangladesh and the U .S .S .R. entered into force. Imports and Import Payments June 22. The m i n im um margin requirement for the opening of letters of credit for imports of machinery and indu s t r ial raw materials was reduced from 10 percent to 5 percent of the va lue of the import. Payments for Invisibles January 16. Under the Wage Earners' Scheme, au thor iza t ion was granted for Bangladesh nationals trave l ing by air to purchase up to US$200 a calendar year for v is i ts to Bu rm a, Ind i a, Nepa l, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka, and up to US$600 for each visit to other countries, subject to a m ax imum of three trips a year. May 19. Au tho r iza t ion was granted to Bangladesh na t iona ls trave l ing abroad by land to purchase up to US$150 a year for v is i ts to Ind ia. Capital March 17. Permission was granted for authorized dealers to grant loans and advances in domestic currency to m anu f a c tu r ing companies incorporated in Bangladesh w i th foreign equ i ty participation at a liberalized scale, subject to observance of the local borrowing entitlement of the respective companies. 86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Barbados is the Barbados Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at BDS$2 = US$1. On December 31, 1983 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BDS$1.9975 and BDS$2.0300, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, and the pound sterling are also officially quoted. These rates include commission charges of 0.1875 percent buying and 1.6250 percent selling. On December 31, 1983 the buying and selling rates of the Central Bank of Barbados for the Cana- dian dollar were BDS$1.6036 and BDS$1.6327, respec- tively, per Can$l; those for the deutsche mark were BDS$0.7317 and BDS$0.7451, respectively, per DM 1; and those for sterling were BDS$2.8900 and BDS$2.9426, respectively, per £ stg. 1. Under clearing arrangements with regional monetary authorities, the Central Bank sells currencies of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) countries1 at fixed rates (including a commission of 0.125 percent) but purchases only East Caribbean and Trinidad and Tobago dollar notes. The rate applied mutually for the purchase of currency notes is the parity rate between each pair of currencies determined on the basis of the U.S. dollar rate. The Central Bank regulates the com- mission that may be charged by the commercial banks in dealings with their customers in CARICOM currencies. Purchases of foreign exchange for private sector remit- tances abroad (except for remittances for payment of imports, travel allowances, education, and nontrade payments up to BDS$500 and certain other specified items) are subject to a levy collected in the approval process by the Central Bank at the rate of 1 percent of the value of the transaction. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries and is administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import payments and the allocation of foreign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. The exchange control system provides that foreign exchange should normally be surrendered to an autho- rized dealer. The normal exchange control directives do not apply to transactions between residents and persons resident in South Africa. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Consumer Affairs. lfrhe CARICOM countries are Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts- Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of countries outside the CARICOM area other than South Africa may be made in any foreign currency,2 or through an External Account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM countries must be made either through External Accounts (in Barbados dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned, except that commercial banks may issue CARICOM traveler's checks denominated in Trinidad and Tobago dollars to Barbadian residents traveling to other CARICOM countries, within the ap- proved limits for travel allowances. Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, authorized dealers may maintain in foreign currencies Foreign Currency Accounts in the names of residents of Bar- bados and of other countries. Approval for opening these accounts is given on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and payments in foreign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to Foreign Currency Accounts, under the condi- tions of approval established at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers without reference to the Central Bank. These accounts are maintained in Barbados dollars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other External Accounts, with bank interest (payable on External Accounts or Blocked Accounts), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Central Bank. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business purposes, and for any other payments covered by delegated authority to autho- rized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. The Exchange Control Act of 1967 (as amended) empowers the Central Bank to require certain payments in favor of nonresidents that are ineligible for transfer to be credited to Blocked Accounts. Balances in Blocked Accounts may not be withdrawn without approval, other than for the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited, and certain imports originating in non-CARicOM countries require individual licenses. The use of import licensing requirements and quantitative restrictions are the chief tools of Barbadian external commercial policy, since 2Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Barbados dollar. 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS tariff policy is pre-empted by CARICOM. The list of products subject to licensing is extensive. However, not all goods that are subject to import licensing are subject to quantitative restriction. Imports of automobiles were not subject to a value quota during 1983, whereas in 1982 they were subject to a quota of US$12 million. Import quotas on passenger cars and small commercial vehicles were eliminated in January, 1983. Some items on the import licensing list may be freely imported throughout the year, while some others are subject to temporary restriction (particularly agricultural products, which tend to be subject to seasonal restriction). Certain imports are prohibited; these include various foodstuffs, blue jeans, and beer not produced within the CARICOM area. There is also a "Negative List" for certain gar- ments, the importation of which is totally prohibited if the product is below a minimum c.i.f. value. Individual licenses are also required for imports of commodities that are subject to the provisions of the Oils and Fats Agreement between the Governments of Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago, whether the goods are being imported from CARICOM countries or from elsewhere. Special licensing arrangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Barbados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agricultural commodities. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warrants) to authorized dealers; payments for imports of crude oil and derivatives are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Except for transactions involving residents of South Africa, payments for all commercial transactions are permitted freely when the application is supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Authority has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic alloca- tions of foreign exchange for certain payments of a personal nature and for sundry payments. These include foreign travel (for which up to BDS$1,500 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel within or outside the CARICOM area, and BDS$200 a day, up to BDS$4,000 a person a calendar year, for business travel within the CARICOM area, and BDS$6,000 outside the CARICOM area), expenses of education abroad (BDS$5,000 a person a year), remittances of cash gifts not exceeding BDS$100 a donor a year, subscriptions to newspapers and magazines, income tax refunds, official payments, and life insurance premiums. Applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital appears to be involved. The cost of transportation to any destination may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the travel allocation. Residents traveling to any destination outside Bar- bados may take out foreign currency notes and coin up to the value of BDS$500 and Barbados notes up to BDS$1OO. Nonresident visitors are not permitted to take out any Barbados currency but may freely export any foreign currency they had previously brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any country; these include rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food products, sewing machines, portland cement, and petroleum products. All other goods may be exported without license. The collection of export proceeds is supervised by the Central Bank to ensure that proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered within six months from the date of ship- ment. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom and the United States are subject to bilateral export quotas, as are exports of rum to the European Community. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Barbados may bring in freely notes and coin denominated in Barbados dollars or in any foreign currency. Residents are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an autho- rized dealer upon return to Barbados. Capital All outward capital transfers, including direct invest- ments by residents and the purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad, require exchange control approval. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Bar- bados, and earnings on these securities must be repatri- ated and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances due to nonresidents, require exchange control approval. Trans- fers in respect of inheritances are restricted to BDS$20,000 annually for each nonresident beneficiary. Dowries in the form of settlements and cash gifts may be transferred to nonresidents with exchange control ap- proval, normally up to BDS$500 a donor a year. Emigrating Barbadian nationals are granted settling-in allowances from their declared assets at the rate of BDS$20,000 a family unit a year. The Central Bank also considers applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Barbados and are proceeding to take up permanent residence abroad, provided that they declare their assets held in Barbados. Direct investment by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the submission of documentary evidence as to the validity of the remittance, the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution discharge of any liabilities related to the investment, and the registration of the original investment with the Central Bank. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of securities registered in Barbados require exchange control ap- proval, which is freely given on condition that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds from the realization of these securities may be remitted when it is established that the original investment was financed from foreign currency sources. Nonresidents may acquire real estate in Bar- bados for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordinar- ily permitted. Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign currency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatriated freely on the basis of a calculated rate of return on the original foreign investment, as follows: for the last five years at 8 percent a year; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years at 5 percent; and for any period preceding the last ten years at 4 percent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Barbados. Authorized dealers may assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. Gold Gold coins with face values of BDS$100, BDS$150, and BDS$200 are legal tender and are in limited BARBADOS circulation. Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold acquired in Bar- bados must be surrendered to an authorized dealer unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold by residents are permitted for industrial purposes and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Consumer Affairs; no license is required to export gold, but exchange control permission is required to do so. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Import quotas on passenger cars and small commercial vehicles were abolished. May 5. A ban was placed on imports of blue jeans from outside the CARICOM. July 17. The following items were placed on the list of goods requiring import licenses: chocolate and food preparations containing cocoa, ratchet knives, spring- loaded knives including flick knives, sewing machines and parts thereof, furniture especially designed for sewing machines, television receivers including receiv- ers incorporating sound receivers and reproducers. July 17. An item designated as prepared or preserved fish (excluding salmon) was removed from the list of items requiring an import license. Payments for Invisibles June 1. Fees levied on foreign exchange applications for current invisible transactions were revised to a flat rate of 1 percent. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belgium is the Belgian Franc. The currency of Luxembourg is the Luxembourg Franc, which, in accordance with a Luxembourg decree, is at par with the Belgian franc. Luxembourg is linked to Belgium in a monetary association. Belgium and Lux- embourg participate with Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, and the Nether- lands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Belgium and Luxembourg ma in ta in the spot exchange rates between the Belgian franc and the Luxembourg franc and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 percent) above or below the bilateral central rates. The agreement implies that the National Bank of Belgium stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in un l im i ted amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1983 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Danish kroner 100 French francs 100 deutsche mark 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders Belgian Francs or Luxembourg Francs Upper l im it Lower l im it 564.1000 539.300 668.0000 638.600 2,048.3500 1,958.500 63.2810 60.4965 33.9700 30.1300 1,818.0000 1,738.0000 The participants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out f luc tua t ions in exchange rates, the intervention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. In Belgium-Luxembourg there are two spot exchange markets, the official (reglemente, or regulated) market and the free market. Most current transactions are settled in the official market; only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market. Most capital transactions take place in the free market. In a few cases, however, there is freedom of choice as to the exchange market in which conversion is to be effected. Authorized banks may sell on the official market currencies acquired on the free market. In the official market most convertible currencies are dealt.l However, although Zairian currency (the zaire) is 'Currencies dealt in the off ic ial market are Aus t ra l ian dollars, Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. The Australian dollar and the South African rand are not o f f ic ia l ly quoted. 90 officially quoted, the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) does not permit the use of the zaire in settlements w i th countries other than Zaire, or the exchange of the zaire for convertible Belgian francs or other convertible currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Nonbank residents may not acquire or surrender convertible currencies in the official spot market un t il a foreign payment is due. Nonbank residents may make forward purchases and sales of convertible currencies in the official market through authorized banks, provided that any foreign currency purchased is used for the authorized settlement of obligations w i th in 15 working days from delivery (on the delivery date itself if the maturity of the forward contract is less than 15 days); exchange not used w i th in that period must be resold in the official market. Profits resulting from forward contracts not used to cover authorized inward or outward payments through the off ic ial market must be surren- dered to the Treasury. On December 31, 1983 the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in the official market were BF 55.55 and BF 55.73, respectively, per US$1. In the free exchange market, all currencies (including domestic and foreign bank notes) may be bought and sold at freely f luc tua t ing rates. On December 31, 1983 the free market rates between banks for the U.S. dollar were BF 56.50 buy ing and BF 56.60 selling, per US$1. Any resident or nonresident, including banks, may deal in the free market. Forward transactions, whether by banks or nonbanks, are uncontrolled and do not require a permitted unde r ly ing transaction. There is normally no intervention in forward exchange in either exchange market. Be lg ium and Luxembourg formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg; the two countries constitute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Banks in Luxembourg may not accept deposits in Luxembourg francs from nonresidents in Luxembourg or term deposits in excess of Lux F 1 million for 12 months or less from residents in Luxembourg. Administration of Control The u l t ima te responsibility for the administration of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Un ion is exercised by the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange Ins t i tu te (IBLC). Exchange control powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks. The Belgo-Luxembourg Administrative Commis- sion has authority to license trade transactions; it determines import and export policy, but has delegated ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the issuance of import and export licenses to the licensing offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. Bank supervision in Belgium is exercised by the Bank Commission, and in Luxembourg by the Luxembourg Monetary Institute. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made through the appropriate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appropriate category of nonresi- dent account. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries (comprising Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire, although the BLEU is not a party to any bilateral payments agreement) and the convertible area (all other countries). All inward and outward transactions are classified in four groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, industrial expenses (e.g., costs of processing), and other commer- cial expenses, including insurance, administrative ex- penses of sales agencies, and sharing in administrative expenses of central offices by branches and affiliates. List B covers settlements of travel agencies, salaries, BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG pensions, fees, subscriptions, taxes, and public adminis- tration payments. It also includes family support pay- ments by emigrant workers of foreign nationality. List C covers (1) income on securities, loans, etc., rents, and operating profits; and (2) repatriation of certain foreign long-term investments. List D covers gifts, life insurance payments, family maintenance payments, capital invest- ments, liquidation of long-term investments and trans- fers by emigrants of foreign nationality, dealings in gold, transfers by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nation- ality, transfers by immigrants, inheritances, forward covering of merchandise, private travel expenses (except when settled through travel agencies), and all transac- tions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for foreign payments are as summarized in the table below. In addition to the general methods of settlement described above, individual licenses are granted in order to allow transfers through the official market for some of the transactions mentioned in List D. These cover essentially direct investment by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals. Conversely, import and export of diamonds, including related costs, may only be paid for in foreign currencies through the free market, or in Belgian or Luxembourg francs by means of nonresi- SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACTION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET Outward Payments Convertible Convertible NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Convertible Convertible or Financial Financial Bilateral* Convertible } Convertible or Financial Financial or Convertible Bilateral or Convertible* } Bilateral or Convertible* Bilateral or Convertible* Convertible Convertible Bilateral Convertible Convertible A,B C D A,B,C,D A,B C D A,B C D Any Any Official Official or Free Free Inward Payments Convertible Convertible Other Official Official or Free Free Convertible Any Free Bilateral Convertible Official Bilateral Convertible Other Official or Free Free Bilateral Any Free or Official *Bilateral Account of the country concerned. Settlements with Zaire may alternatively be made by debit or credit to Convertible Accounts in zai'res held with banks in Zaire. 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG dent Financial Accounts, or in domestic or foreign bank notes. Payments for goods of Egyptian origin (other than rice, raw cotton, and crude petroleum) are subject to special rules. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg franc accounts of nonresi- dents are classified as follows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the off ic ial market, and accounts may be opened freely in the name of any nonresident.2 They are not related to any coun try or monetary area. They may be used freely for set- tlements w i th residents, which either must or may be made through the official market and for retransfer abroad through the official market, and they may be credited freely w i th proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the official market to authorized banks in Belgium and Luxem- bourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be trans- ferred freely to other Convertible Accounts or be converted into any currency in the official market. Advances on Convertible Accounts other than ma i l- credit advances are subject to authorization by the 1BLC. A m in imum debtor interest rate may be prescribed during certain periods for mail-credit advances in Con- vertible Accounts of banks, w i th the exception of those for developing countries. Convertible Accounts may be held in the form of sight accounts (demand deposits), prior notice accounts, and time deposits. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area coun tr ies .3 They may be used freely for settlements, wh ich either must or may be made through the free market and for retransfer abroad through the free market, and they may be credited w i th proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the free market. Domestic bank notes and proceeds from the sale in the free market of foreign bank notes, when deposited w i th authorized banks by foreign travelers in Be lg ium and Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad, may be credited to Financial Accounts. Transfers between Financial Ac- counts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated in the free market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries and are related 2International organizations and foreign diplomatic representations established in the BLEU ma in ta in Special Accoun ts, w h i ch are equivalent to Convertible Accounts but are not subject to the restrictions applicable to the la t ter. Foreign employees of these organizations and representations may ma in ta in Special Convertible Accounts wh ich may be credited w i th the ir remune ra t ion in Be lg ian francs, provided they agree in w r i t ing not to arbitrage between both exchange markets to cover the ir current expenses in the BLEU. 3Foreign diplomats, foreign nationals employed by diplomatic representations accredited in the BLEU and by specified in te rna t ional organizations situated in the BLEU, individuals residing in Bu rund i, Rwanda, orZa'ire, and BLEU na t iona ls residing abroad tempo ra r i ly for professional reasons are authorized to maintain Assimilated Res ident Accounts. 92 to the coun try of residence of the account holder. They are used for settlements w i th bilateral countries and may be credited w i th proceeds from the sale of convertible currencies by a nonres ident in the official market. Balances on B i la teral Accoun ts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may also be made freely between Bilateral Accoun ts related to B u r u n d i, Rwanda, and Zaire. In practice, the au thor i t ies permit the conversion of bal- ances on B i la teral Accoun ts of the central banks of these three countries into foreign currencies in the official market. Interest, charges, and commissions relating to any nonresident account mu st be credited or debited either to the account in ques t ion or to another of the same category. Imports and Import Payments Ind iv idual licenses are required for (1) all imports from A l b a n i a, Bu lga r ia, the People's Repub l ic of China, Czechos lovak ia, the German Democratic Repub l ic, Hong Kong, Hunga ry, Japan, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Mongo l ia, Poland, Roman ia, the U . S . S . R ., and V iet N am ,4 and (2) a number of imports from all other coun tr ies outside the BLEU .5 The com- modities for wh ich ind iv idual licenses are required inc lude many tex t i le and steel produc ts, certain agricul- tu ral products and food s tu f f s, coal and petroleum prod- ucts, diamonds, and weapons. All other commodities are free of license; the sole requ i rement is a form completed by the importer g iv ing no t i f ica t ion of the payment (payment declaration —model A), which must be pre- sented to an au tho r ized b ank. No exchange control documen ta t ion is required for imports not exceeding BF 100,000 in va lue. Many commodities subject to ind iv idu al l icens ing are also adm i t ted w i thout quantita- tive res tr ic t ion. Along w i th other EC countries, the BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EC coun t r ies; the BLEU also applies a system of m i n im um import prices to foreign steel products. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC are subject to import lev ies, w h i ch have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other ag r icu l tu ral and livestock products. An authorized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regu la t ions (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and that foreign exchange is not acquired un t il the import payment is due. Exchange control approval is required for paymen ts for imports more than three mon ths before or six mon ths after the date of customs 4Import licenses are issued free ly for a large n um b er of commodities when o r i g i n a t i ng in and sh ipped from B u l g a r i a, Czechos lovak ia, German Democratic Repub l ic, Hung a ry, Poland, Roman ia, and U . S . S . R. 5Most imports in the la t ter group do not requ i re an import license when imported from the N e th e r l ands or from o ther EC coun t r ies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution clearance; prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required for payments exceeding BF 25 mil- lion and for payments made more than 30 days before the date of customs clearance. However, in the latter case, prior examination is not required if payment takes place either under a documentary credit or on a documentary collection basis, provided that documents are submitted to the authorized bank showing that the goods have already been shipped to the BLEU. Payments for transit transactions must be made not later than three months from the date of any advance payment collected from the foreign buyer, and may not be made earlier than three months before the date on which such payment is expected to be received. Payments for Invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for transactions included in Lists A and B must be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account. For payments exceeding BF 25 million and in other excep- tional cases, prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required. Payments to convertible area countries for items in List C may be made through either the official market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account) or the free fnarket (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic bank notes); payments for items in List D must be made through the free market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic bank notes); pay- ments to bilateral countries must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the country concerned; payments to Zaire, however, may also be made in zaires through a convert- ible account in Zaire. Foreign and domestic bank notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Individual licenses are required for exports of speci- fied commodities to all countries outside the BLEU, such as weapons, strategic products, and agricultural products. Individual licenses are also required for steel products exported to the United States.6 All other exports are free of license; only a form (notice of export—model B) completed by the exporter and giving notification of the export must be presented to an authorized bank. Exchange control documentation is not required for exports of less than BF 100,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to verify that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Special authoriza- tion is required to collect export proceeds more than six months after the date of exportation. Export proceeds in 6Most exports do not require an export license when exported to the Netherlands or to other EC countries. BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG convertible currencies must be surrendered to an autho- rized bank (i.e., sold in the official exchange market) within eight days of receipt or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a Regulated Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. A holder of a Regulated Account is required to use holdings in these accounts by priority whenever an authorized payment through the official exchange market is made. The IBLC may order the holder to sell part or all of the holdings in the official exchange market, to abstain temporarily from making new deposits, and to surrender to the Treasury all gains from exchange rate appreciation. Advance collection of export proceeds more than three months before the expected date of exportation requires prior authorization by the IBLC. Proceeds from transit transactions must be collected within three months from the date of payment to the foreign supplier. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invisibles connected with commercial transactions (Lists A and B—see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange market) within eight days of receipt or, alternatively, be credited to a Regulated Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for authorized current payments. A holder of a Regulated Account is required to use holdings in these accounts by priority whenever an authorized payment through the official exchange market is made. The IBLC may order the holder to sell part or all of the holdings in the official market, to abstain temporarily from making new deposits, and to surrender to the Treasury all gains from exchange rate appreciation. Receipts in convertible currencies from transactions included in List C may be retained or sold in the official or the free market. Receipts from other transactions (List D) and receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Proceeds from transactions included in Lists C and D may also be collected in domestic or foreign bank notes. Foreign and domestic bank notes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions with convertible area countries may be carried out through the free market, by set- tlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign bank notes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals, including gifts, family maintenance payments, remittances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and inheritances, may also be made through the official market, subject to individual license. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments made in Belgium and 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the official market (under special license and as an exception to the standard prescription of currency set out above) may be repatriated through that market. Also eligible for outward transfer through the official market are the amortization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by residents of convertible area countries, provided that such securities have been held at least 18 months prior to the maturity date. All transactions in securities by residents or nonresidents are free, but the financial settlement of such transactions must conform to the general regulations for capital transactions. The prior approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capital market by nonresi- dents; most of the Belgian franc bond issues on the domestic capital market have, in practice, been made by international organizations, while issues of Eurobonds denominated in Belgian francs are not normally per- mitted. The Luxembourg authorities have, from time to time, permitted Eurobond issues denominated in Luxem- bourg francs. Public bids by foreign companies or individuals for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Outward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries may be made only in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Ac- counts or, in the case of Zaire, in zai'res; inward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries may be made in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Accounts, in any currency through the free market or, in the case of Zaire, in zai'res. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in coins or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; settlements in respect of gold transactions in coins or bars w i th convertible area countries may be made only through the free market, through Financial Accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, or in domestic or foreign bank notes. Imports and transactions in monetary gold are subject to a value- added tax in Belgium at a rate of 1 percent. Licenses are required for imports of semiprocessed gold. Imports of gold for industrial, artistic, or medical use may be paid through the official market. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement March 14. With effect from March 18, 1984 the authorization for major commercial banks to keep long positions in spot foreign currency on the official market in excess of the ceiling of BF 20 million generally applied to all banks was withdrawn. March 21. As part of the general realignment of the EMS currencies, the bilateral central rates and the intervention rates of the Belgian and Luxembourg francs were depreciated against the Netherlands guilder, the Danish krone, and the deutsche mark, and appreciated against the Italian lira, the French franc, and the Irish pound. May 26. In a modification of the regulations on the operation of the dual exchange rate arrangement, the Belgium-Luxembourg Exchange Institute (IBLC) granted authorization for the banks to sell on the official market currencies acquired on the free market, thus permitting capital in f lows to supply indirectly the official market. June 1. The Luxembourg Monetary Institute formally commenced operations. Resident Accounts March 14. As a means of countering pressures on the exchange rate, the IBLC introduced a regulation that foreign currency export receipts could no longer be deposited in regulated resident accounts in foreign currency, but should be sold immediately on the official market; existing foreign exchange assets on such ac- counts were required to be either used up or converted on the official market by April 15, 1983. (Following the easing of exchange rate pressures in connection with the EMS realignment of March 21, the IBLC withdrew this regulation on April 5, 1983.) Nonresident Accounts March 14. From March 14 to March 22, a penalty rate of interest, payable to the IBLC, was charged for overdrafts on nonresidents' convertible franc accounts of banks, with the exception of those for developing countries. Imports August 23. W i th in the EC context, a regulation was introduced setting provisional quantitative limits for 1983 in respect of imports into the BENELUX countries of specified types of textile products originating in the People's Republic of China. 94 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belize is the Belize Dollar, which is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at a rate of BZ$1 = US$0.50. The buying and selling rates for transactions betwefen the Central Bank and the com- mercial banks are BZ$1.9937 and BZ$2.0063 per US$1, respectively. On December 31, 1983 the buying and selling rates in transactions between the banks and mem- bers of the public were BZ$1.9825 and BZ$2.0175 per US$1, respectively. The Central Bank quotes daily rates for the pound sterling and the Canadian dollar. Belize acccepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Agreement on June 14, 1983. Administration of Control The Central Bank is responsible for the administration of exchange control, which is applicable to all countries. Authority covering a wide range of operations is dele- gated to the commercial banks in their capacity as autho- rized dealers. Only in exceptional cases or in applica- tions involving substantial amounts is reference made directly to the Central Bank. However, all applications for foreign exchange processed by authorized dealers are regularly forwarded to the Central Bank for audit and record keeping. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency The only prescription of currency requirement relates to a specified list of currencies1 in which authorized intermediaries are permitted to deal with the public. Payments to a CARICOM member country must be made in the currency of that country. Nonresident Accounts Permission of the Central Bank is needed for banks to open external or foreign currency accounts. The Central Bank may direct also that sums to be credited or paid to foreign residents be credited to a blocked account. Import and Import Payments Payments for imports require authorization by the Central Bank; in most cases such authorization is dele- gated to the commercial banks. For reasons of health, standardization, and protection of domestic industries, import licenses from the Ministry of Trade and Industry are required for a number of goods, mostly food and agricultural products, and certain household and con- 1 Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and the currencies of the member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM). The CARICOM countries are Angu i l la, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. K i t ts- Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. struction products; such licenses are liberally adminis- tered. There are no quota limits nor other quantitative restrictions for balance of payments reasons. Goods im- ported into the country are subject to import duties, ad valorem, in many cases, and specific, in others. Imports by the public sector and certain nonprofit entities, im- ports of an emergency or humanitarian nature, and goods for re-export are exempt from import duties; goods ori- ginating from the CARICOM area are also exempt. All imports are subject to a stamp duty of 5 percent of the c . i . f. value. Payment for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Authorized dealers have the power to provide foreign exchange for such payments below certain limits. The following limits are applied to purchases of foreign ex- change: (a) nonbusiness travel by residents, up to BZ$ 1,500 a person a calendar year; (b) business travel by residents, BZ$200 a day a person, up to BZ$6,000 a year; (c) business or nonbusiness travel by nonresidents, BZ$500 a person a year, except where payment is made from an external account or from proceeds of foreign currency; (d) educational allowance, BZ$500 a course a year; and (e) gifts, BZ$100 a donor. Requests in excess of these amounts are referred to the Central Bank; all bona fide requests are granted. Exports of foreign and domestic bank notes and cur- rency are subject to limits as follows: each traveler may carry domestic bank notes up to BZ$100 and the equiva- lent of BZ$400 in foreign currency, except that a visitor may take out such notes up to the amount imported. Amounts beyond these limits require approval of the Central Bank, which is liberally granted when justified. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for most of the export products. Export proceeds must be surrendered to autho- rized dealers not later than six months after the date of shipment, unless determined otherwise by the Central Bank. A small number of items2 are subject to an ad valorem export duty of between 2 percent and 5 percent. Re-exports and transshipments are subject to a 2 percent administrative fee. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Belize are free to bring in notes and coins denominated in Belize dollars up to BZ$100 a person, but there are no restrictions on imports of foreign currency. Resident travelers are re- 2Lobster, shrimp, conch, fish, turtles, mahogany, wild animals, and sugar. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELIZE quired to sell their excess holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon return to Belize. Capital All capital transfers require approval of the Central Bank but control is liberally administered. Gold Residents may not hold gold except by specific authorization from the Central Bank. Gold may neither be imported nor exported without the approval of the Central Bank Changes During 1983 June 14. Belize notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund's Agreement as of this date. 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Benin is the CFA Franc,l which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. They include a bank commission. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Benin's exchange con- trol measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Came- roon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries, but for purposes of certain capital controls, the countries specified in this paragraph are also regarded as foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the the Direc- torate of Monetary and Banking Affairs in the Ministry of Finance, in conjunction with the Directorate of External Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce. The Ministry of Finance, however, has the main responsibil- ity for drawing up the exchange control regulations, in collaboration with the BCEAO. The BCEAO is autho- rized to collect, either directly or through banks, finan- cial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be carried out by authorized intermediaries. Import licenses are issued by the Direc- torate of External Commerce. Exports of diamonds and other precious or semiprecious materials require prior approval in the form of a decree issued by the Council of Ministers. !The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de I'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. Prescription of Currency Since Benin is an Operations Account country, set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Settlements with all other countries are usually effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China, however, are made through special accounts.3 All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Cotonou by an authorized bank's foreign correspondent for credit to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter with an authorized bank. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries direct to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or proceeding from South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. The Societe de 1'Alimen- tation Generate du Benin (AGB) has a monopoly over the importation of sugar, rice, wheat, wheat flour, condensed milk, alcoholic beverages, and tobacco. Certain other agencies have an import monopoly for other specified commodities. Imports of all other goods originating in countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely without an import license. Imports of all other goods originating in EC countries other than France may also be made freely; these goods require a license, which is issued automatically. Certain imports are liberalized when originating in member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Devel- opment (OECD) other than Japan and require only an import certificate made out by the importer himself. Imports of nonliberalized commodities originating in OECD countries, all imports originating in Japan, and all imports originating in non-OECD countries are subject 3There is an inoperative payments agreement with Hungary. 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BENIN to licensing; they are admitted in accordance w i th an annual import program. Under this program, a global quota is established for imports from all countries outside the French Franc Area except EC countries. Certain French textiles processed in foreign countries are licensed separately. All imports originating in foreign countries, when valued at more than CFAF 500,000, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Directorate of External Commerce, but for many types of invisibles the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Administration have been empowered to make paymen ts abroad freely on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au thor iza t ion. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a trip for each person (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 rema in ing after return to Benin must be surrendered. For busi- ness travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Benin is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes issued by other Operations Account countries. Residents traveling to countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding.to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Un ion, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on entry, subject to adjustment for amounts exchanged for CFA francs or obtained by exchange of foreign currency. Nonresident travelers may take out freely the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank 98 notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by the Operations Account countries; a maximum amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 in foreign bank notes; and any amount in other foreign means of payment (travel- er's checks, etc.) established abroad and in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports to all foreign countries, inc lud ing the French Franc Area, must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. All exports, except gold and d iamonds, are free of license but require an export application visaed by the Directorate of External Com- merce. The due date of payment for exports to foreign countries may not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination; irrespective of the currency of paymen t, the proceeds must be remitted through an authorized domiciliary bank w i th in one month of the due date. Prior authorization is required for the retention, sale, import, or export of raw diamonds and of precious and semiprecious materials. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in inv is ib les w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign bank notes and foreign currency traveler's checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must declare them to the customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank w i th in eight days. Capital Transfers of capital between Ben in and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Benin and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; most capital transfers to all other countries require prior approval by the M in i s t ry of Finance and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted free ly. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct inves tment and all outward investment in foreign coun- tries, and over the issu ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Benin. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from au thor iza t ion, however, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Beninese Government and (2) shares that are similar to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or may be substituted for securities whose issuance or sale in Benin has already been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Mon- etary Union, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Benin re- quire prior authorization by the Minister of Finance; at least 75 percent of such investments must be financed from foreign borrowing.4 Foreign direct investments in Benin5 must be declared to the Minister before they are made. The Minister may request the postponement of the operations, within a period of two months. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Beninese investments abroad or foreign investments in Benin, must be reported to the Minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting and export-import firms (approved by the Minister of Finance) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister of Finance if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authori- zation by the Minister of Finance. Including those made through foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Benin and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Benin. 5Including those made by companies in Benin that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Benin of foreign companies. BENIN The Investment Code (Law No. 82-005 of May 20, 1982) provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in industry, mining, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism, when such invest- ments are deemed to be of value to national devel- opment. Four preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for public and mixed enterprises operating at the national and provincial levels and provides, during a period of up to 5 years, for exemption from import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the produc- tion of the proposed item and from certain other taxation. Plan B, for domestic and foreign private enterprises, is granted for a maximum exemption period of 5 years and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, certain other tax privileges. Plan C is intended for very large enterprises wishing to conclude incorporation agree- ments with Benin and is granted for a period of up to 10 years. In addition to the benefits of Plan B, Plan C guarantees stability of tax status, free choice of sup- pliers, and certain other advantages. For Plans A, B, and C up to two years for installation time can be added to the period of the agreement. Plan D provides certain benefits for small and medium-sized domestic enter- prises and cooperatives for up to 5 years. The method of application of the Investment Code is set out in Decree No. 28-254 of July 13, 1983. Gold Prior authorization in the form of a decree issued by the Council of Ministers, acting on the advice of the Minister in Charge of Mines, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in, raw diamonds and precious or semiprecious materials. In practice, residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Benin. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments June 10. Intel-ministerial Circular (arrete) No. 467 MC/MCTC/MF came into force, modifying certain regulations on foreign trade. Exports and Export Payments June 10. Interministerial Circular (arrete) No. 467 MC/MCTC/MF came into force, modifying certain regulations on foreign trade. Capital July 13. A law (Decree No. 28-254) on the applica- tion of the Investment Code came into force. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BHUTAN (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bhu t an is the N g u l t r um. Since its introduction in 1974 it has been pegged to the I n d i an rupee, which also circulates in Bhu t an, at a rate of Nu 1 = Re 1. The rates for currencies other than the Ind ian rupee are determined da i ly on the basis of the prevailing quotations by the Reserve Bank of Ind ia for those currencies. In the absence of large transactions, exchange rates for other currencies may be de term ined on the basis of the most recent quotations by the Reserve Bank of Ind ia. No other exchange rates app ly to international transactions, and there are no subs id ies or taxes on exchange transactions. On December 31, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates of the n g u l t r um for the U .S. dollar were Nu 10.39 and Nu 10.58 per US$1, respec- tively. There are no taxes or subsidies on foreign exchange transactions. Administration of Control The M in is try of Finance controls external transactions and provides foreign exchange for most current and capital transactions. The Royal Monetary Au tho r i ty is in charge of imp lemen ta t ion of the surrender requ iremen ts for proceeds from merchandise. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing use of specific currencies in external receipts and paymen ts. Imports and Import Payments All import payments other than those made in Ind i an rupees are subject to prior permission from the M i n i s t ry of F inance. The M i n i s t ry has discretionary au tho r i ty to deny foreign exchange for the payment of luxu ry impor ts. Customs du t ies exist on imports other than those from I n d i a. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no export taxes or subs id ies. Exports of an t iques of Bhu tanese o r ig in are proh ib i ted. Proceeds of exports in currencies other than the Ind ian rupee must be surrendered to the Royal Monetary Au tho r i ty either d irec t ly or th rough the Bank of Bhu t an. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles A ll inv i s ib le paymen ts other than those made in Ind ian rupees are subject to approval by the M in is t ry of Finance. A ll receipts from inv i s ib le transactions in currencies other than the Ind ian rupee must be surren- dered to the Royal Monetary Au tho r i ty. Capital All cap i tal transac t ions are subject to approval by the M in i s t ry of F inance. Gold There are no specific regu la t ions on transactions in gold. Changes During 1983 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 100 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Bolivia is the Bolivian Peso. The official buying rate is $b 500.00 per US$1. Sales of foreign exchange are subject to a central bank handling charge of 0.15 percent, or $b 0.75, and a National Treasury tax of 1.8 percent, or $b 9.00. Thus, the Central Bank sells foreign exchange to the public sector as well as to commercial banks and exchange houses at $b 509.75 per US$1. A banking commission of $b 0.45 is charged for sales to the public, bringing the effective selling rate of authorized commercial banks and ex- change houses to $b 510.20 per US$1. Banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agencies are allowed to purchase foreign exchange at the official rate from sources such as the tourist industry for surrender to the Central Bank during the first hour of the business day following the transaction. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are also officially quoted, with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. Bolivia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from June 5, 1967. Administration of Control All receipts and expenditure of foreign exchange are subject to state control. They are regulated by the Ministry of Finance and the Exchange Policy Board which is chaired by a representative of the Ministry of Finance and includes in addition representatives of the Ministry of Planning and Coordination, the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Tourism, the Confederation of Private Entrepreneurs, and the Confederation of Labor Unions. The Exchange Policy Board is responsible for approving or rejecting all applications for the purchase of currency for import purposes, in accordance with the Government's general guidelines, rules, and priorities. The Board also enforces, supervises, and evaluates the mandatory surrender of exchange from all exports of goods and services. The Board is also responsible for the publication, in the official gazette, of the lists of individuals and entities to which foreign exchange has been allocated. All applications for the purchase of foreign exchange for import purposes must be submitted to the Central Bank of Bolivia through the banks. The Secretariat of the Exchange Policy Board then considers 'With effect from April 13, 1984, the Central Bank of Bolivia's buying and selling rates in terms of the U.S. dollar were changed from $b 500 = US$1 (buying) and $b 510.2 = US$1 (selling) to $b 2,000 = US$1 (buying) and $b 2,039 = US$1 (selling), representing a devaluation of 75.0 percent on a midpoint basis. 2Argentine pesos, Belgian francs, Brazilian cruzeiros, Canadian dollars, Chilean pesos, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, Peruvian soles, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. applications in accordance with the applicable rules and forwards them for approval or rejection to the Exchange Policy Board. All public sector institutions must present an annual foreign exchange budget to the Ministry of Finance before applications for the purchase of foreign exchange can be approved by the Board. Exchange allocations approved by the Board are administered by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Bolivia and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the multi- lateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments All public sector imports and all private sector imports involving use of official foreign exchange are subject to prior authorization by the Exchange Policy Board. Imports by public sector agencies require in addition authorization by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Health is authorized to draw up regulations governing the allocation of foreign exchange for the import of medical supplies. Import applications by public sector agencies must be consistent with the official foreign exchange budget. Private sector imports of non- prohibited items financed by importers with their own foreign exchange do not require authorization by the Exchange Policy Board and may be approved by the Central Bank. Importation of some 600 products, which are considered nonessential or produced domestically, is temporarily prohibited unless such items are covered by the agreements signed between Bolivia and the Latin American Integration Association. All imports in excess of US$5,000 (US$15,000 in the case of mining compa- nies) must be covered by letters of credit drawn on foreign banks. Applicants for import authorization must present photocopies of import documents, such as the invoice, description of the articles purchased, and a clearance from the Bolivian tax administration that the applicant is not in arrears on taxes. Most private sector imports are subject to a customs surcharge of 5 percent ad valorem. Most imports also are subject to a tax on services rendered of 2 percent. Payments for Invisibles Private banks require prior authorization from the Central Bank for selling foreign exchange to finance 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA import of invisibles. Foreign exchange for purposes of foreign travel, students' subsistence, and health treat- ment abroad is allocated by the government-owned state bank as delegated by the M in is try of Finance through the Exchange Policy Board and administered by the Central Bank, in accordance with available foreign exchange assets and the standards and priorities determined by the Government. Residents of Bolivian or foreign national- ity must present a certificate of tax settlement (cer- tificado de solvencia tributaria) when leaving the coun- try. The fee for the certificate is $b 500 for air travel to neighboring countries, $b 250 for overland travel to such countries, $b 1,000 for air travel to other Latin American countries, and $b 1,500 for air travel to countries outside Latin America. Outward remittances of profit are gov- erned by the provisions of Decision Nos. 24 and 80 of the Cartagena Agreement. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not normally subject to licensing, al- though certain exports may be prohibited or restricted from time to time owing to domestic demand and supply factors. All proceeds from exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the Central Bank at the official exchange rate w i th in three days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign exchange expenditures undertaken to effect the export. As regards minerals, COMIBOL and the medium- sized mines export their own production, and the Mining Bank that of the small private mines. All exports of goods and services must be effected through docume- n ary letters of credit drawn on domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Banks, exchange houses, hotels, and travel agencies are required to surrender during the first hour of the business day following the transaction, and at the buy ing rate established by the Central Bank, all their foreign exchange purchases from invisible transactions, includ- ing those from tourism. Capital Foreign exchange for outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents can be purchased from the banks only upon approval by the Central Bank. Inward capital transfers may be made freely, but government receipts of transfers and grants and all proceeds of borrowings from foreign public sector agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, to government agencies and autonomous entities, and credits to the private sector with official guarantees, are subject to prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Finance and to control by the Central Bank. All foreign borrowing by the private sector involving use of official foreign exchange for debt servicing requires prior approval by the Exchange Policy Board in cases of ind iv idual amounts not exceeding US$100,000, and by the Ministry of Finance for larger amounts. Under Supreme Decree No. 19732 of Au- 102 gust 11, 1983 f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions in Bolivia may make loans in the form of credits denominated in foreign currency for imports of capital goods and inpu ts for the external sector with resources from international finan- cial institutions, foreign government agencies, or exter- nal lines of credit. Foreign investments in Bo l iv ia, except those involv- ing petroleum and m in ing, are governed by the provi- sions of the Investment Law (Decree-Law No. 18751) of December 14, 1981. The law is administered by the National Investment Institute. Investments in petroleum and m in ing are governed by the General Hydrocarbons Law and the M in ing Code. Certain foreign investments are subject to Decision Nos. 24 and 103 of the Cartagena Agreement. Gold Imports and exports of gold and domestic trading in gold are regulated by the Central Bank. The Central Bank also purchases, for its use or for export in the form of gold bars, the total national production of gold. Without affecting these powers of the Central Bank, the Mining Bank may purchase at home and sell abroad, in unworked form, the output of gold, silver, and platinum. The Mining Bank also sells gold, silver, and platinum on the domestic market subject to conditions that it estab- lishes jo in t ly w i th the Central Bank. The Central Bank is empowered to purchase its f u ll requirements of gold from the M in ing Bank. Cooperatives and other produc- ers must sell the gold they produce to the Central Bank. The M in ing Bank is authorized to sell a specified quan t i ty of gold annua l ly to domestic jewelers and dentists and is obliged to sell the remainder to the Central Bank. Residents may freely purchase, retain, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement November 21. The exchange rate of the Bolivian peso was changed from $b 196.0 (buying) and $b 200.0 (selling) per US$1 to $b 500.0 (buy ing) and $b 510.2 (selling) per US$1, representing a devaluation of 60.8 percent on a midpoint basis (Supreme Decree No. 19890). In addition, the 8 percent premium on purchases of foreign exchange from tourists was abolished. Administration of Control January 5. The Comision de Polftica Cambiaria, or Exchange Policy Board (EPB), established a deadline of February 28, 1983 for all pub l ic institutions to present their annual exchange budgets to the Ministry of Fi- nance. Private sector ins t i tu t ions could also submit their exchange budgets to the EPB on a voluntary basis w i th in the same deadline, in wh ich case their requests would receive preferential treatment. March 30. The EPB was restructured in accordance w i th Supreme Decree No. 19501 by replacing the representative of the Comptroller General's Office with a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution representative each from the Confederation of Private Entrepreneurs and the Confederation of Bolivian Labor Unions (the Central Obrera Boliviana). Other existing representatives on the Board (Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Planning and Coordination, Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, and the Central Bank) were retained, including its chairmanship, by a representative from the Ministry of Finance. In addition, a permanently functioning Operative Board (Comision Operativa), chaired by the Director of Exchange Policy of the Ministry of Finance, was created to process and approve applications for foreign exchange; the Board included representatives from the same ministries as the EPB, as well as a representative from the Central Bank. Also, in the same decree, two departmental subcommit- tees (Cochabamba and Santa Cruz) were established to process minor exchange applications originating locally. September 23. Supreme Decree No. 19800 was is- sued, assigning the regulation and administration of the foreign exchange regime to the Ministry of Finance through the EPB which was empowered to allocate foreign exchange for imports of goods and services, foreign debt servicing, travel, and other invisibles in accordance with norms and priorities determined by the Government. Exchange allocations determined by the EPB would be administered by the Central Bank. September 23. All public sector institutions were required to present their exchange budgets to the Minis- try of Finance by December 31 of each year (Supreme Decree No. 19800). Imports and Import Payments January 5. The Exchange Policy Board issued direc- tives specifying that all approved exchange requests for imports would be valid for a period not exceeding six months and requiring imports to be shipped within three months from the date of exchange approval. January 5. The EPB granted authorization for the Central Bank to approve requests for nonprohibited imports financed by the importer with own foreign exchange; in such cases, the importer was required to deposit the total amount at the Central Bank, which would in turn make the payment when due. Payments for Invisibles January 5. Permissible applications for foreign ex- change by private individuals during a fiscal year were made subject to a limit equal to the disposable annual income in each case, defined as the larger of (a) taxable income in excess of the minimum legal salary, or (b) the average balances in deposits w i th financial institutions over the preceding 12 months. BOLIVIA January 5. Limits were imposed on purchases of foreign exchange for travel as follows: (a) US$500 for travel to neighboring countries; (b) US$800 to other Latin American countries; and (c) US$1,500 to Europe, the United States, and Japan. In addition, purchases of foreign exchange for medical treatment abroad were made subject in each case to a limit of US$1,500, with a provision for additional amounts in bona fide cases. May 30. The EPB issued a regulation, specifying that only permanent residents would be allowed to pay for airline or other fares in local currency; with the exception of diplomatic missions and personnel of international organizations, all nonresidents would be required to pay for domestic and international air services in U.S. dollars which were accordingly permitted to be accepted by domestic and foreign airlines in payment for such services. Exports and Export Proceeds September 23. All exports of goods and services were required to be effected through documentary letters of credit drawn on domestic banks, and the latter were required to surrender the foreign exchange to the Cen- tral Bank w i th in three days of receipt (Supreme Decree No. 19800). Capital September 23. Supreme Decrees Nos. 19799 and 197801 introduced the following changes in the regula- tions governing foreign indebtedness: (a) all public sector institutions were required to obtain prior approval, first from the Ministry of Finance, and then from the Central Bank, before entering into negotiations on any foreign financing or refinancing; (b) foreign borrowing for private sector institutions or private individuals, which would require official foreign exchange for debt servicing, was made subject to approval by the Exchange Policy Board in the case of individual amounts not exceeding US$100,000, and by the Ministry of Finance for larger amounts; (c) no restrictions would be applied on foreign borrowing which would be serviced directly by a private institution or individual with own foreign exchange; (d) loans from multilateral and bilateral international institutions and repayable in foreign cur- rency could be lent and re-lent domestically either in the original currency, or on the basis of maintenance-of- value clauses; and (e) international insurance contracts could be drawn up in foreign currency, in which case the insurance companies would be required to open foreign currency accounts with the Central Bank for their operations and their technical reserves. 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Botswana is the Botswana Pula, which is pegged to a basket of currencies consisting of equal amounts for the SDR and the South African rand. On December 31, 1983 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were P 1.1541 and P 1.1570, respectively, per US$1; on the same date, the middle rate for the SDR was P 1.2112 per SDR 1. Exchange rates for certain other currenciesl are quoted on the basis of their rates against the U.S. dollar in international markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is applicable to transactions with all countries. The Minister of Finance and Development Planning has delegated most of the administration of exchange controls to the Bank of Botswana (the central bank). The latter, in turn, has delegated certain powers to banks appointed as authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from residents of foreign countries must normally be made or received in a foreign currency or through a nonresident-held pula account in Botswana. There are no bilateral payments agreements. Imports and Import Payments Botswana is a member of a customs union with Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are generally no import restrictions on goods moving be- tween the four countries. Import permits are required, however, for most goods imported directly into Bots- wana from outside the customs union. Certain imported goods, including firearms, ammunition, fresh meat, and some agricultural and horticultural products, require permits, regardless of the country of supply. There are no restrictions or delays on payments for authorized imports. Goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana, Malawi, and Zimbabwe by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided they are not intended for re-export. 'Deutsche mark, South African rand, pounds sterling, and Zim- babwe dollars. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue reasons. Proceeds from exports must be re- ceived in a foreign currency or from a nonresident pula account. For a few items, such as precious and semi- precious stones, permits are required before export is allowed. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not restricted. Authority to approve some types of current payments is delegated to commercial banks up to established limits—such as the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel, which is the equivalent of P 3,000 in a calendar year for an adult and P 1,000 for a child. The allowance for business travel is P 130 a day, up to a maximum of P 5,000 a calendar year. The annual limit on remittances and tourist travel by temporary residents is P 6,000 or 50 percent of eligible salary, whichever is greater. Separately, trav- elers may freely bring in any amount of domestic bank notes and coin and take out P 75 in such bank notes and coin. The Bank of Botswana may authorize the mainte- nance of "Retained Accounts" at banks abroad for residents who make frequent foreign payments; these accounts are subject to ceilings. Capital Applications for outward transfers of capital are decided according to their merits but are generally granted favorable consideration. The rulings on applica- tions for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is temporarily a resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. There is a terminal allowance of P 6,000 for departing temporary residents. Local borrowing by nonresident-controlled companies in Botswana is limited to (a) an initial maximum of P 100,000 without matching nonresident funds, and (b) full matching with inflows of external funds for amounts in excess of P 100,000. Changes During 1983 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 104 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Brazil is the Cruzeiro. Since August 1968 Brazil has followed a flexible exchange rate policy under which the exchange rate for the cruzeiro is adjusted at relatively short intervals in terms of its intervention currency, the U .S. dollar. Exchange transactions are carried out by the Central Bank of Brazil, the Banco do Brasil S .A ., and by banks and tourist agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange; the tourist agencies deal only in bank notes and traveler's checks in a "manual market." Uniformity between the rates quoted by the monetary authorities and the effective rates of the authorized banks is ensured by the practice of the monetary authorities of standing ready to purchase exchange from the banks and to sell it to the banks at the official rate for approved transactions. On December 31, 1983 the buying and selling rates quoted by the monetary authorities to the public were Cr$979.00 and Cr$984.00, respectively, per US$1. The same exchange rates are applicable to "agreement dollars" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries. Rates for other currencies are based on the U .S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for the respective currencies in New York and Europe. With specified exceptions, foreign exchange transactions are subject to brokerage fees, calculated on a sliding scale, which result in effective rates of up to 3/i6 of 1 percent on either side of the rates set by the monetary authorities. On the buying side, other effective rates result from arrangements involving the collection of export levies in foreign exchange or at the point of exchange settlement at the banks. Such export taxes1 are imposed on a range of products, and tax credits are granted on indirect federal and state value-added taxes at a rate of 11 percent of f.o.b. value for exports of manufactured goods (certain manufactured exports to the United States and European Economic Community are subject to export taxes at rates equal to or larger than the tax credits). On the selling side, a different effective rate arises from the application of a financial transactions tax (imposto sobre operates de credito, cdmbio e seguro, e sobre operates relativas a titulos e valores mobiliarios) of 25 percent to purchases of foreign exchange for imports of goods and services, with specified exemptions. The Banco do Brasil S .A ., the Banco da Amazonia S.A., the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil S .A ., and the Banco Nacional de Credito Cooperative S .A ., acting on their own behalf, carry out a considerable proportion of all exchange transactions, including those of all public sector agencies. They sell foreign exchange for the requirements of the Government at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction. Exchange 'Beginning January 1, 1984 these taxes have been converted from exchange taxes to trade taxes. transactions in the currencies of bilateral partner coun- tries are effected by the authorized banks, which settle them with the Central Bank. Global daily limits are fixed for the authorized banks' bought and sold positions in foreign exchange. The limits are fixed in relation to the registered capital of each bank: a bank having registered capital of up to Cr$500 million may maintain a bought or sold position of up to US$750,000 over and above that financial base; and a bank is allowed a bought position of up to US$7.5 million. Banks that are authorized to operate exclusively in the manual market and tourist agencies are permitted to maintain a bought position of up to US$25,000 for each authorized branch, but may not maintain a sold position. The Central Bank supplies foreign exchange to authorized banks in amounts not exceeding those needed to eliminate an oversold posi- tion, and limited to 90 percent of the exchange sold by the bank concerned to its customers during the same day or on the previous day; included in this limit is their manual market position (bank notes and traveler's checks). The banks are permitted to sell foreign ex- change to each other, and transfers between branches of the same bank are allowed, subject to certain conditions; such transactions may be carried out either on a spot basis by cable or on a forward basis, and must be executed within two working days for spot transactions or not later than 180 days for forward transactions. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council is responsible for the formulation of overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the Coun- cil, exchange control is operated by the Central Bank's Exchange Department (DECAM), while the control over foreign capital is operated by the Department of Foreign Capital Supervision and Registration (FiRCE); the latter processes the registration of foreign capital. General borrowing abroad requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. The Department for International Opera- tions (DEPIN) is in charge of the management of international reserves. Limits on international borrowing by the public sector are applied by the Secretariat for Control of State-Owned Enterprises (SEST) in the Plan- ning Secretariat of the Presidency of the Republic. The National Council of Foreign Trade (CoNCEX), a board headed by the Minister of Finance, formulates foreign trade policy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the Council's executive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade Department of the Banco do Brasil S.A. (CACEX) implements the Council's decisions within Brazil. CACEX issues export and import certificates (guias de exporta^ao or declaragoes de exporta^do and guias de importa$do). Coffee exports are regulated by the Brazilian Coffee 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Institute (IBC). The Customs Policy Commission (CPA), established w i th in the M in is t ry of Finance, is responsible for fo rmu la t ing gu ide l ines for tar iff po l icy. The CPA also decides on changes in customs du t ies under the provisions of existing legislation. The import policy of the pub l ic sector is coordinated by SEST. Prescription of Currency In principle, prescription of currency is related to the country of origin of imports or the country of f inal destination of exports, unless otherwise prescribed or authorized. Settlements with bilateral payments agree- ment countries2 are made in clearing dollars through the relevant agreement account. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bo l iv ia, Chile, Colombia, the Dom in i- can Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, U ruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Brazil and the other central banks concerned, w i th in the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Settlements w i th coun- tries w i th which Brazil has no payments agreements or special payments arrangements are made in U .S. dollars or other freely usable currencies. Imports and Import Payments The import of commodities o r ig ina t ing in or shipped from Cuba is prohibited. CACEX has suspended the issuance of import licenses for a large number of "superfluous" imports. The impor ta t ion of a sma ll number of commodities is prohibited. There is also a limitation on the direct import of consumer goods (and on the purchase on the domestic market of any imported consumer goods) by the pub l ic and sem ipub l ic sector (direct organs of the Government, au tonomous agencies, public enterprises, and companies w i th mixed pub l ic and private participation). All other imports may be grouped into the fo l low ing two broad categories: (1) imports that are free of any requirement to secure prior administrative documen ta- tion, including samples without commercial value and certain educational materials, and (2) imports that require an import certificate, wh ich is issued auto- matically if it conforms to a previously subm i t ted indicative annual import p lan. Import certificates are issued on an f .o .b. basis. CACEX is authorized to make a processing charge of up to 0.9 percent on the va lue of import certificates; as a ru le, certificates are va l id for 90 days or 180 days, depending on the commodity (60 days for goods subject to price controls). For special bonded warehouse importers, CACEX establishes ha lf-year ly foreign currency quotas and issues clearance certificates based on these importers' sem iannual import programs. For a number of specified imports, the import certificate 2Bilateral accounts are ma in ta ined w i th Bu lg a r i a, German Demo- cratic Repub l ic, Poland, and Roman ia. For Hunga ry and Roman ia, as IMF member countries, settlements are made in third coun try curren- cies every 90 days, and interest rates payable on balances are based on the international capital marke t. 106 may be obtained after the commodity has been landed but before customs clearance. For certain other imports the prior approval of CACEX is required; these inc lude goods imported by public bodies,3 impor ts for wh ich tariff concessions are being sough t, certain imports w i thout exchange cover, goods for use in fa irs and trade exh ib i t ions, certain types of used cap i tal goods, and goods to be brought in with foreign f i n a n c i ng on a deferred payment basis. For the las t-men t ioned category, it is a prior condition for the g ran t ing of import certificates for specified groups of commodities that importers must arrange external f in an c ing w i th specified m in imum maturities ranging between three years and eight years, depending on the type of commod i ty and the amount of f inanc ing in- vo lved .4 All importers must be registered with CACEX, and imports can be effected on ly by registered firms or persons. Importers are required to subm it to CACEX an annu al import program as a basis for requesting import licenses. The M in is ter of Finance may, on a temporary basis, and in accordance w i th the directives of the Economic Development Council (EDC) and w i thout pre jud ice to comm i tmen ts under LAIA, authorize CACEX to reject app l ica t ions for import certificates where ( 1) imports are for speculative stock bu i ld ing purposes; (2) impor ts are causing or are threatening to cause serious damage to the na t ional economy; or (3) imports or ig ina te in or are shipped from countries that impede B raz i l ian exports. Goods imported in to the Manaus free zone are subject to an a n n u al quo ta. The transfer to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) of foreign goods originally imported in to the Manaus free zone is restricted to the equ iva lent of US$600 free of import taxes. As a general ru le, imports may be cleared through cus toms before an exchange contract is closed. How- ever, CACEX may approve applications for the payment of impor ts of any goods at terms of up to 360 days from the date of sh ipm en t, provided that no import du ty concessions or other tax concessions are involved. External f inanc ing at terms in excess of 360 days for impor ts, regardless of the classification of the importer and the purpose of the merchandise, must be authorized by the Central B a n k, wh ich w i ll evaluate them in the l ight of foreign debt po l icy. Registration w i th FlRCE is also dependent on a ru l ing by CACEX that Brazilian firms are unab le to supp ly the imports. Payment of the amount f inanced, and the interest thereon, may be made only upon presentation of a certificate of authorization and the related scheme of paymen ts issued by FIRCE. Prior to sh ipment of the goods, total payments to suppliers for 3U n d er in s t ru c t ions issued by the Economic Development Council, federal m i n i s t r i es and subo rd ina te agencies and enterprises are required to s u bm i t, for approval by the President, an annu al investment program incorporating the ir expected import requirements. In 1983 these imports were l im i t ed to US$1,989 m i l l i o n, exc lud ing imports of wheat, o i l, and o il produc ts. 4Im p o rt t ran sac t ions below US$100,000 a year for each importer and certain specified imports, i n c l u d i ng direct imports by pub l ic a dm i n i s t r a t i ve bodies, are exempt from th is requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the nonfinanced amount may not exceed 10 percent of the import value. Spot exchange contracts may be closed if the contract is intended to settle drafts, at sight or on maturity, and the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be settled on maturity of the draft; settlement may take place 2 working days in advance of the maturity date. Forward contracts, for up to 180 days, may be closed when a letter of credit is being opened. A deposit requirement equivalent to 100 percent of the value of the exchange operation is applied, with some exceptions,5 to the contracting of forward exchange for the opening of letters of credit. Such deposits must be transferred to the Central Bank on the working day following the contracting of the ex- change operation and are released on the date of settlement or the date of cancellation of the contract. Letters of credit must be opened within 5 working days from the date of the exchange contract. Letters of credit for more than 360 days may be opened without prior closing of an exchange contract. Commercial banks ordinarily require a guarantee deposit for their own protection for forward exchange contracts; the amount of the deposit varies with the credit standing of the customer. When the contracts are liquidated, guarantee deposits may be used in payment for the foreign exchange. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports of petroleum and petroleum products and of wheat. For petroleum and specified petroleum by-products, PETRO BRAS concludes for each import transaction an individual foreign exchange contract. At the same time, the Banco do Brasil S.A. concludes a foreign exchange contract with the Central Bank, to cover its position for an amount equivalent to the value of the individual contract at the exchange rate at which the Central Bank sells foreign exchange to commercial banks. For some commodities, eligibility for exemption from import duties may be precluded by the existence of satisfactory domestic equivalents (similares nacionais)', application of such duties may also be affected by the establishment of a minimum import price (pauta de valor minima) or of a reference price. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and technical assistance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. In addition to certain restrictions on remittances stipulated in that law, limits are placed on remittances of all royalties and technical assistance fees (see below). Subject to certain conditions, authorized banks may sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$300 a 5Imports exempt from the deposit requirement inc lude beef, p r in t ing paper for newspapers, magazines, and books, fertilizers, certain agricultural chemicals and related raw materials for their production, and goods imported into the Manaus free zone for use in local production. Also exempt are imports authorized under drawback operations, imports of seeds and fru i ts for p lan t ing, and imports of beans, soybeans, corn, onions, and copper ore. BRAZIL month for Brazilian residents temporarily staying abroad for educational and health purposes. Payments for other current invisibles require the approval of DECAM or FIRCE, which authorizes remittances freely, subject to the presentation of supporting documents as evidence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. Sales of foreign exchange without the prior approval of the Central Bank in respect of personal expenses connected with travel abroad are permitted up to US$500 a person 18 years old or older; for trips to or initial stopover in Central or South America, the amount is US$100. In both cases, US$100 (or its equivalent in other currencies) is provided in cash or traveler's checks and any remainder in the form of payment orders. The basic allowances are one half of the preceding amounts for minors between the age of 2 and 18 years and no allowances are available for infants up to the age of 2 years. A special allowance of US$20,000 a year is available for the travel and representation expenses abroad of firms whose annual exports total at least US$200,000. Applications for purchases of foreign exchange for travel in excess of these limits must be submitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits. Remittances abroad of income from foreign direct investments and reinvestments and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are governed by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regulations implementing the Foreign Investment Law. Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance, are registered at FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). The registration of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or the use of patents or trademarks is subject to approval by the National Ins t i tu te of Industrial Property. Remittances are nor- mally authorized in the currency of the country of domicile or of the head office of the beneficiaries. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization payments are permitted freely in accordance w i th the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration; the remittances are subject to withholding tax on income at a rate of 25 percent, but remitters are eligible for a rebate of 40 percent on the tax paid. Remittances of royalties by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad are not permitted when 50 percent or more of the local f irm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign principal firm or when the majority of the f i rm 's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Remittances of technical assistance fees (either w i th or w i thout the use of trademarks and patents) are not permitted, as a ru le, when remuneration for such services exceeds specified percentages, ranging from 1 percent to 5 percent, of net receipts from the sale or manufac ture of the products. The percentages are the 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL same as those established in Braz i l's taxation laws for de term in ing the m ax imum permissible deductions for such expenses. Purchasers of foreign exchange for a number of current invisibles are subject to the f inanc ial transactions tax (IOF) of 25 percent. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign bank notes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of licensing requirements but require an export certificate (guia de exporta(;ao or declara^oes de exporta^ao) issued by CACEX to ensure compliance w i th exchange and trade regulations. Some exports are free of controls, but exports of many commodities require prior approval of CACEX, wh i le exports of specified commodities, inc lud ing certain primary prod- ucts and raw materials required for domestic consump- tion, are prohibited or suspended, and exports of certain other commodities are conditional on prior domestic sales. Exports requiring approval include those effected through bilateral accounts, exports w i thout exchange cover, exports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which m i n im um export prices are fixed by CACEX, and exports requ ir ing prior au tho r iza t ion by government agencies. Exports of certain commodities are subject to an annual quota. Exports of coffee are subject to authorization by the IBC. The IBC does not grant an au thor iza t ion to export coffee unless the sales contract is based on a price that is at least equal to the m i n im um registration price (in U .S. dollars a pound, f .o .b .) fixed periodically by the IBC for the various types of coffee, a l though discounts are also authorized. Exporters of coffee are required to surrender, w i thout compensation, a portion of the ir foreign ex- change proceeds in the form of a contribution quota which varies according to the type of coffee. The cruzeiro proceeds from the contribution quota are trans- ferred to the Treasury. The con t r ibu t ion quotas also are set periodically by the IBC and are fixed in terms of foreign currency; on December 31, 1983 they were US$99.50 for green or decaffeinated raw-hulled coffee (a bag of 60.5 kilograms) and for green or ground- roasted coffee (a bag of 48 kilograms), US$1.26 a pound for spray-dried soluble coffee, and US$1.58 a pound for freeze-dried soluble coffee. Exporters of coffee convert foreign exchange proceeds, after deduction of the contri- bution quotas, at the official market rate preva i l ing on the date of exchange contract. Thus, the proceeds received by coffee exporters depend on ( 1) the amount of the contribution quo ta, (2) the actual price received (f.o.b. Brazil, in U .S. dollars), and (3) the off ic ial market rate of exchange. Dur ing 1983, the IBC contin- ued to make periodic announcemen ts of m i n im um registration prices, as well as con tr ibu t ion quotas for exports of soluble coffee and green, ground-roasted, and decaffeinated coffee, a l though not necessarily changing them. The foreign exchange proceeds from all other exports 108 are sold at freely negotiated rates w i th in the limits of the official market. Foreign exchange contracts covering such transactions may be closed either prior to the sh ipment of goods or w i th in ten working days after sh ipmen t. For a period scheduled to end on April 1, 1984 exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa products are required to surrender w i thout compensation 10 percent of their exchange proceeds.6 The export of hides of wild animals in any form is suspended. A number of export incentives are in operation, pr inc ipa l ly for manufac tured commodities. Exporters of manufactured goods are eligible for a tax credit on indirect federal and state value-added taxes; on Decem- ber 31, 1983, the credit amounted to 11 percent of the f.o.b. value of export. However, for a number of exports to the United States (primarily textiles, leatherwares, footwear, and certain steel products), export taxes of 11-19 percent are levied. For exports of ladies' footwear to all destinations, a tax of 19 percent is levied. In 1983, export taxes at d ifferent rates were levied on a number of other products, irrespective of destination. Various f inanc ing programs for exporters, some at preferential rates of interest, are provided by the Banco do Brasil S.A. and the commercial banks. These financing facili- ties inc lude both export financing and the financing of production and warehousing for export, particularly for manufac tures. In add i t ion, assistance is provided to exporters in the field of export credit insurance and by way of guarantees. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold through the Banco do Brasil S.A. or the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Traveler's checks and foreign bank notes are sold in the manual market. Brazilian enterprises rendering services to tourists (e.g., hotels, restaurants, travel agencies) may receive income tax rebates in proportion to their earnings from tourism, provided that the service is paid for in foreign exchange and that the tourist enterprise converts the exchange into cruzeiros at the official rate.7 Travelers may bring in domestic and foreign currency notes freely. Capital Capital in f lows in the form of financial loans under Na t ional Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, or under the provision of the Foreign Invest- ment Law (Law No. 4131) are subject to ceilings and require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private or pub l ic sector when the foreign funds originate from official financial institutions abroad, when the transaction is to be guaranteed by the National Treasury or, on its beha lf, by any official credit ins t i tu t ion, and for other foreign borrowing by the public 6On ly 5 percent in the case of sugared cocoa powder containing up to 50 percent of cocoa cake. 7 App l ica t ion of the relevant Decree-Law No. 1587 of December 20, 1977 is s t i ll pend ing imp lemen t ing regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and semipublic sector (i.e., direct organs of the Govern- ment, autonomous agencies, public enterprises, and companies with mixed public and private participation). Besides, prior approval by the Central Bank is required for borrowing by the private sector when the foreign funds originate from financial institutions abroad. Other- wise, inward transfers are unrestricted and free of control, although the subsequent utilization of the pro- ceeds for the acquisition of certain domestic assets may be subject to control. There is a separate regime for inward portfolio investment. For the purpose of repatria- tion and the remittance of income, however, inward transfers of foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be registered with FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined for this purpose as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment to be used to produce goods or to render services that have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in economic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or w i th headquarters abroad. Foreign capital other than capital invested in Brazilian securities is classified, for purposes of registration, as direct investments or loans, whether imported in the form of money or of goods, and it includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Direct investment is defined as that foreign capital which constitutes part of the corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inherent in an economic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise is considered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whether contracted by the manu- facturer himself or by a third party, is considered to be financing (mostly suppliers' credit). Persons domiciled or resident abroad may make portfolio investments in Brazilian commercial and indus- trial securities, provided that transactions are channeled through a Brazilian "investment company" and are effected on Brazilian stock exchanges. Such capital is subject to registration with the Central Bank and must remain in the country for at least three months. The minimum participation in portfolio investment compa- nies by foreign firms or individuals is US$1,000. Portfolio investments are exempted from the capital gains tax. For financial imports and for investments made in the form of goods, the registration is in the currency of the country of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head office) or, in special circumstances, in the currency of the country of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in foreign currency, it is necessary to certify that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the original market of the loan, that the amortization schedule is not disproportionately heavy in the early stages of repayment, and, in the case of import BRAZIL f inanc ing loans, that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of comparable goods in the country of or ig in. If the terms of f inanc ing are approved, CACEX examines the applications for some foreign borrowing in the l ight of the price and essentiality of the proposed import and of the ava i lab i l i ty of satisfactory domestic equ iva len ts. Capital entering Brazil is registered in foreign cur- rency. Re inves tmen ts are defined as profits of companies established in Brazil and accruing to persons or compa- nies resident or domiciled abroad. Such profits must have been reinvested in the same companies that pro- duced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made s imu l taneous ly in Braz i l ian currency and in the currency of the country to wh ich the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calculated at the average exchange rate p reva i l ing between the date on which the profits appeared on the balance sheet of a company and the date of their reinvestment. Special regulations govern borrowing abroad. Under National Monetary Council Resolution No. 63, as amended, private commercial, inves tmen t, and devel- opment banks and the Banco Nacional de Desenvol- v imen to Economico e Social (BNDES) may be autho- rized to take up foreign currency credits abroad for domestic re lend ing for purposes of f inanc ing working capital. Safeguards against excessive use of such credits include l im i ta t ions on the foreign obligations that each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. The risk can be mitigated for credits w i th ma tur i t ies of 90-180 days through monetary correction fixed by the indexed government bonds (ORTNS). The Central Bank assures the ava i lab i l i ty of cover for the repatriation of the loan at ma tu r i ty. All other f inanc ial loans in foreign currency are effected under the general provisions of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131 ). Loans under th is law also require prior central bank authorization, but the Central Bank does not undertake to provide specific exchange cover for them. Loans under Resolution No. 63, as we ll as those under Law No. 4131, must have a m i n im um term of eight years but no m ax imum term is set. Foreign loans are subject to mandatory deposit at the Central Bank. In the case of private enterprises, the deposit is applicable to 75 percent of the loan proceeds converted into cruzeiros and it is released as follows: one third after 60 days from the deposit date, another one third after 90 days, and the balance after 120 days; for pub l ic enterprises, the deposit is applicable to 100 per- cent of the loan proceeds converted into cruzeiros and is released as follows: 20 percent after 150 days from the deposit date, 40 percent after 180 days, and the balance after 210 days. In addition to these mandatory deposit regulations, on June 23, 1977 the Central Bank authorized voluntary de- posits at the Central Bank by f inanc ial and nonfinancial 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL institutions of the outstanding balances of their foreign loans with a provision that the operation could be reversed after 30 days. For as long as the deposit remains with the Central Bank, the Central Bank covers all costs on these loans, including the exchange cost. As part of the measures announced on December 7, 1979, these provisions were modified as follows: (1) voluntary deposits at the Central Bank in respect of nonfinancial loans (under Law No. 4131) were frozen for an indefi- nite period,8 except for funds required for related interest and amortization payments, for transformation of such loans into direct investment or, in certain special cases, upon the approval of the Central Bank; and (2) a manda- tory waiting period of 120 days was established for the withdrawal of deposits made in the Central Bank under Resolution No. 63 and not withdrawn within 60 days from the deposit date; where the funds are for use in the rollover of loans to domestic enterprises, prior notice of 15 days is required. Under a program for the management of external debt, the National Monetary Council imposes quantitative limits on the amount of financial loans for which authorization may be given by the Central Bank. Loans are authorized only if maturities conform with m in imum requirements established from time to time by the Central Bank, which permits the total of loans outstand- ing to rise only to the extent that the servicing commit- ments on Brazil's total external indebtedness do not depart from the guidelines set by the National Monetary Council. At the end of 1983 the Central Bank's mini- mum acceptable maturity was eight years. However, provided that the fu ll amount of the foreign exchange remains committed to Brazil for the m in imum specified maturity, loans to the final borrower in Brazil, as well as loans to banks under Resolution No. 63, may be made at terms shorter than the final maturity of the debt abroad, and these funds may subsequently be re-lent to the same or a second borrower. Outward capital transfers not mentioned above require authorization by DECAM and FIRCE, which consider applications on their merits. Approved exchange transac- tions involving outward transfers of private capital are effected through authorized banks at the prevailing official market rate. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coin in Brazil. Gold mining is conducted under Law No. 4425 of October 8, 1964. The domestic negotiation of newly mined gold is subject to a mining tax of 1 per- cent, which may be offset against other tax liabilities if and when the gold is manufactured. The Central Bank is empowered to buy and sell gold on the domestic market at international prices. In practice, purchases of gold in the domestic market are made at current domestic prices; the international price is considered as a price goal. 8Under Central Bank Resolution No. 741 of June 16, 1982, foreign currency deposits made after June 18, 1982 are exempted from the freeze requirement. no Imports of gold are subject to the issuance of an import certificate by CACEX; imports of native gold and of gold in the form of powder are free of customs duty. Imports of rough gold fall w i th in the zero range of import duties but are subject to the tax on financial transactions. Exports of gold are subject to approval by the Central Bank, which is always the alternative buyer. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement As part of the changes noted below, the cruzeiro was devalued on 54 occasions during 1983, from a middle rate of Cr$252.04 = US$1 at the end of 1982 to Cr$981.50 = US$1 at the end of 1983, representing a cumulative depreciation of 74.32 percent against the U.S. dollar, in terms of U.S. dollar units per unit of local currency. February 27. The exchange rate of the cruzeiro was adjusted from Cr$291.95 = US$1 to Cr$379.00 = US$1 (representing a devaluation of 23 percent), and the magnitude of monthly devaluation was reduced from at least 1 percentage point above the domestic rate of inflation to at least the domestic rate of inflation. (In addition, export taxes ranging from 9 percent to 20 per- cent were levied on a wide range of mostly agricultural, livestock, and forestry products.) (Central Bank Resolu- tion Nos. 799 and 800.) March 11. The financial transactions tax of 25 per- cent was abolished for foreign exchange sales for travel and business representation expenses (Central Bank Resolution No. 807). March 11. Imports of unworked coal and sodium carbonate were exempt from the financial transactions tax, and the tax rate was lowered from 25 percent to 15 percent for a list of specified imports, or 12 percent for such specified imports from LAIA member countries (Central Bank Resolution No. 808). April 7. A new compilation of the regulations govern- ing payment of the financial transactions tax was published, containing lists of items subject to reduced rates of 15 percent and 12 percent as well as exempt items. May 25. The Central Bank was authorized to waive the collection of the financial transactions tax on imports of services required for exports of goods and services. Authorization was also given to CACEX to grant exemp- tion from the financial transactions tax until June 30, 1984 for outward payments in respect of the renting or leasing of ships to catch tuna or shrimp for export. In addition, the financial transactions tax on payments for lead imports was reduced from 25 percent to 15 percent, or from 20 percent to 12 percent for such imports from LAIA member countries enjoying tariff concessions. June 29. It was announced that the rate of deprecia- tion of the cruzeiro would be made equal to that of the monetary correction, which in turn would be equal to the movement in the General Price Index-Domestic Supply (Central Bank Resolution No. 841). December 28. It was announced that the financial ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution transactions tax would be applied to foreign exchange sales for payment of crude oil imports at the following rates: 10 percent from January 16, 1984 to March 15, 1984, 15 percent from March 16, 1984 to June 15, 1984, and 25 percent thereafter (Central Bank Resolution No. 891). Administration of Control July 29. Foreign exchange surrender requirements and a related foreign exchange allocation system were established, and it was announced that from August 1, 1983 foreign exchange transfers abroad for the purpose of discharging payments obligations contracted on or from that date by authorized Brazilian commercial banks would be effected according to the terms and priorities prescribed by the Central Bank (Central Bank Resolution No. 851). Imports and Import Payments March 11. Imports of unworked coal and sodium carbonate were exempt from the financial transactions tax, and the tax rate was lowered from 25 percent to 15 percent for a list of specified imports, or 12 percent for such specified imports from LAIA member countries (Central Bank Resolution No. 808). March 28. A facility called the "green-yellow draw- back" was created, under which authorization was granted for trading companies to procure and sell raw materials and intermediate goods free of domestic taxes for transformation into exports within a specified max- imum period. In addition, a technical commission (COTEX) was established to approve and monitor such operations. April 13. A tariff exemption valid for six months was granted for the importation of 1 million tons of wheat (CPA Resolution No. 08-0448). April 13. The import tariffs on beef leather and hides imported by the tanning or processing industries for their own use were suspended for one year (CPA Resolution No. 05-0443). May 1. Brazil ceased to grant multilateral tariff concessions to Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Paraguay, and Uruguay, and announced that henceforth, tariff conces- sions would have to be negotiated bilaterally with these countries, as had been the practice since 1980 with the member countries of the Andean Group (Bolivia, Col- ombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela). May 6. Imports of alumina by aluminum producers were exempted from customs duties for one year (CPA Resolution No. 05-0451). May 13. Imports of specified minerals, including iron and steel alloys, copper, nickel, aluminum, lead, and zinc, were made subject to prior import control (CACEX Communication No. 49). May 25. The Central Bank was authorized to waive the collection of the financial transactions tax on imports of services required for exports of goods and services. Authorization was also given to CACEX to grant exemp- tion from the financial transactions tax until June 30, 1984 for outward payments in respect of the renting or BRAZIL leasing of ships to catch tuna or shrimp for export. In addition, the financial transactions tax on payments for lead imports was reduced from 25 percent to 15 percent, or from 20 percent to 12 percent for such imports from LAIA member countries enjoying staff concessions. December 28. It was announced that the financial transactions tax would be applied to foreign exchange sales for payment of crude oil imports at the following rates: 10 percent from January 16, 1984 to March 15, 1984, 15 percent from March 16, 1984 to June 15, 1984, and 25 percent thereafter (Central Bank Resolution No. 891). Payments for Invisibles March 11. The basic foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad was reduced from US$2,000 to US$1,000 a trip, with continued scope for central bank approval of additional amounts in bona fide cases. (The monthly limit of US$300 for personal remittances remained restricted to Brazilians temporarily resident abroad to pursue approved educational programs or for medical treatment.) In addition, the financial transac- tions tax of 25 percent was abolished for foreign exchange sales for travel and business representation expenses (Central Bank Resolution No. 807). September 14. The basic foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad was reduced from US$1,000 to US$500 a person a trip, with a reduction from US$300 to US$100 for travel to Latin America. (In addition, further exemptions from the financial transactions tax were announced, including those for specified financial opera- tions of the Brazilian Development Bank .) December 20. The supplementary tax on remittances of profits and dividends was modified to apply to all distributions of profits and dividends, whether remitted abroad or not, but reinvested profits were exempted from these provisions (Decree Law No. 2073). December 28. A requirement was introduced that the cruzeiro value of that part of service payments for medium- and long-term external debt which was eligible for rescheduling by the Paris Club ( i .e ., 95 percent of principal and interest payments due) should be deposited in the Central Bank in special foreign currency denomi- nated deposits (Central Bank Resolution No. 890). Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The interest rates on export financing in foreign currency were lowered from a range of 8.5- 10.0 percent to a range of 7.5-9.0 percent, depending on the type of product and period of financing. January 6. The "contribution quota" for coffee ex- ports was increased from US$50 to US$51.50 a 60.5 kilogram bag of green coffee; and it was announced that henceforth the contribution quota would be adjusted by 75 percent of the rate of depreciation of the cruzeiro, and would be calculated on the basis of the exchange rate in effect on the day of the exchange operation. February 16. A regulation was introduced, speci- fying that for purposes of determining the tax base, commissions, price rebates, contractual penalties, and in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL other cost elements for imports under specified condi- tions could be deducted from the f .o .b. value of certain exports to the Un i ted States; the unadjusted f .o .b. value would continue to be the tax base for all other taxable exports to the United States, for some of wh ich higher tax rates were introduced (Central Bank Resolution No. 798). February 21. Export taxes ranging from 9 percent to 20 percent were levied on a wide range of mostly agricultural, livestock, and forestry products (Central Bank Resolution Nos. 799 and 800). March 4. The export tax on cocoa and cocoa products was lowered from 20 percent to 15 percent (Central Bank Resolution No. 801). March 15. Export taxes on soybeans and soybean products were reduced from 20 percent to 5 percent un t il March 31, 1984, and were scheduled to be abolished on April 1, 1984 (Central Bank Resolution No. 809). March 17. Export taxes were lowered from 20 per- cent to 10 percent for manganese ore and hema t i te, to 8 percent for itabirite, and eliminated for iron, a lum ina, and tungsten ore. The rema in ing tax on manganese ore and hematite, and itabirite was scheduled to be lowered by 1 percentage point a month from April 15, 1983 and to be eliminated in November 1983 and Janua ry 1984, respectively (Central Bank Resolution No. 810). March 28. A facility called the "green-yellow draw- back" was created, under wh ich authorization was granted for trading companies to procure and sell raw materials and intermediate goods free of domestic taxes for transformation into exports w i th in a specified max- imum period. In addition, a technical commission (COTEX) was established to approve and monitor such operations. March 30. The export tax on cocoa and related products was reduced from 15 percent to 13 percent for cocoa beans and to 10 percent for processed cocoa products, and the tax rates were scheduled to be lowered by 1 percentage point a month to reach 5 percent and 2 percent, respectively, at the end of November 1983, at which levels they would remain un t il their scheduled elimination after March 31, 1984 (Central Bank Resolu- tion No. 811). March 31. The tax of 14.41 percent on exports to the United States of prestressed concrete reinforcing wire was w i thdrawn, and a new tax of 13.42 percent was levied on exports to the Un i ted States of specified steel bars (Central Bank Resolution No. 812). April 29. Exports of specified steel bars to the United States were made subject to a tax of 15.31 percent (Central Bank Resolution No. 819). May 12. The export tax on maize was reduced from 20 percent to 5 percent for shipments effected dur ing the period May 12, 1983 through March 31, 1984 and to zero percent thereafter (Central Bank Resolution No. 820). May 16. Exports of maize were temporarily sus- pended, and it was announced that CACEX would in due 112 course pub l ish regulations on exportation of the export- able surplus estimated at 330,000 tons in 1983 (CACEX Commun ica t ion No. 50). May 25. The export tax on citrus f ru it pulp was reduced from 10 percent to 5 percent for shipments effected between May 25, 1983 and March 31, 1984, and to zero percent from April 1, 1984 (Central Bank Resolution No. 821). June 9. The export tax on orange ju ice concentrate was reduced from 20 percent to 16.49 percent for sh ipmen ts registered from June 10, 1983 to April 30, 1985, w i th an additional tax of 3.51 percent for such exports to the Un i ted States. (On Ju ly 8, the basic tax was fu r ther reduced to 1 percent for shipments registered from J u ly 11, 1983 to April 30, 1984.) June 22. The export tax on tobacco was reduced from 20 percent to 5 percent for shipments registered between June 23, 1983 and March 31, 1984, and to zero percent for sh ipmen ts registered from April 1, 1984 (Central Bank Resolution No. 840). June 29. The export tax on cashew nuts was abol- ished w i th effect from June 30, 1983 (Central Bank Resolution No. 842). December 1. It was announced that export taxes would be abolished or reduced on a range of specified goods in mon th ly steps term ina t ing by April 1984 (Central Bank Resolution No. 866). December 20. A regulation was introduced speci- fy ing tha t, w i th effect from January 1, 1984, taxes on exports of orange and tangerine ju ice, cattle beef hides, women's footwear, and certain manufactured goods exported to the Un i ted States and the European Eco- nomic Commun i ty would be based on the f.o.b. value, and compu ta t ion of the cruzeiro equivalent would be based on the off ic ial exchange rate on the day of shipment (Central Bank Resolution Nos. 877-880). Tax payments were required to be made w i th in 15 or 45 days of shipment, depending upon the type of merchandise (M in is try of Finance Order No. 313). (In addition, the supplementary tax on remittances of profits and divi- dends was modified to apply to all distributions of profits and d iv idends to nonresidents, whether remitted abroad or no t, but reinvested profits were exempted from these provisions.) (Decree Law No. 2073.) December 27. It was announced that the "contribu- tion quota" on cocoa would be replaced on April 1, 1984 by an export tax levied at the same rate as the con tr ibu t ion quota but based on the f.o.b. value of the export. Computation of the cruzeiro value of the tax would be based on the exchange rate in effect on the date of shipment of the merchandise (Central Bank Resolu- tion No. 887). Capital January 11. Transactions in the form of leasing and sale-and-leaseback arrangements with a maturity of at least eight years and f u l f i l l i ng certain specified condi- tions became eligible for a 20 percent income tax reduction, and outward remittances of the corresponding ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution leasing fees were exempted from the financial transac- tions tax (Central Bank Resolution No. 788). In addi- tion, the minimum period for which nonresident capital should be invested in Brazilian securities in order to be eligible for the fiscal benefits under Decree Law No. 1986 was lowered to three months (Central Bank Resolution No. 790). January 13. The maximum amount of exchange transactions on Brazilian securities exchanges that may be effected without the intervention of authorized bro- kerage houses was raised from the equivalent of US$1,000 to the equivalent of US$20,000 (Central Bank Resolution No. 791). December 28. A requirement was introduced that the cruzeiro value of that part of service payments for medium- and long-term external debt which was eligible for rescheduling by the Paris Club (i.e., 95 percent of principal and interest payments due) should be deposited in the Central Bank in special foreign currency denomi- nated deposits (Central Bank Resolution No. 890). BRAZIL 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bu rma is the Burmese Kya t, wh ich is pegged to the SDR at K 8.50847 = SDR 1. Bu rma applies margins of 2 percent in respect of spot exchange transactions, based on the fixed kyat-SDR rate. The buy ing and selling rates of the kyat for the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, and the U .S. do l lar, quoted by the Myanma Foreign Trade B ank, are de term ined on the basis of the da i ly ca lcu la t ions of the va lue of these currencies aga inst the SDR. On December 31, 1983 the buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U .S. do l lar were K 8.2266 and K 8 .3911, respectively, per US$1. B u y i ng and selling rates for the Belgian franc, the I ta l ian lira, and the Ne ther lands gu i lder are de term ined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the New York market; buy ing and se l l ing rates for the Hong Kong do l lar, the Malaysian r ingg i t, and the Singapore dollar are deter- mined weekly on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the Hong Kong, Kua la L um p u r, and Singapore marke ts, respectively; and buy ing and se l l ing rates for other currencies are based on appropriate cross rates in local markets (e.g., Bombay, for the Ind ian rupee). There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Exchange Control Board, through the My anma Foreign Trade Bank, in accordance w i th ins t ruc t ions from the M in i s t ry of P lann ing and Finance. A Foreign Exchange Control Committee headed by the M in i s ter of P l ann ing and Finance is in charge of the allocation of foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency Bu rma has no bilateral paymen ts agreements. Certain settlements w i th Bangladesh are channe led through a nonresident bank account at the My anma Foreign Trade Bank, and certain settlements w i th Ind ia are channe led through special rupee accounts in that coun t ry. Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kyats to an External Account in Bu rma. Receipts must be collected in convertible currencies or to the debit of an External Account in Bu rma. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts may be kept w i th the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank by in te rna t ional organiza- tions, d ip loma t ic personne l, or other foreign residents, subject to approval by the Exchange Control Board. Such accounts are no rma l ly held in deutsche ma rk, Indian rupees, pounds s te r l ing, or U .S. dollars. They may be credited and debited free ly, but no interest is payable on them. Foreign na t iona ls temporar i ly resident 114 in Bu rma are en t i t led to hold foreign exchange u t i l iza t ion cards for use in d ip loma t ic shops. Nonresidents may be au thor ized to hold ex ternal accounts in kyats; all debits and credits to such accounts require prior au thor iza t ion. Burmese na t iona ls wo rk ing abroad under permission from the Government may open accounts in U .S. dollars w i th the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank, Rangoon, out of the ir savings; w i th exchange control approval, w i th- drawals from such accounts can be used for payment of personal impor ts and petty expenses. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Afr ica are proh ib i ted. Also proh ib i ted are imports of a few commodities from any source —pr inc ipa l ly op ium and other narcotics, mon- keys, p l a y i ng cards, and gold and silver bu l l ion. An import program is prepared a n n u a l ly as part of the foreign exchange budget drawn up by the M in is try of P l a nn ing and Finance. All imports are made by, or in the name of, the Myanma Expor t-Import Corporation (ME IC ). The ME1C imports goods for the use of the private sector, whose requ iremen ts are estimated by the Central Trade Counc i l. In general, government agencies and depar tmen ts import goods for the ir own use, i n c l u d i ng imports und er loan and aid agreements, in the name of the ME IC. Most impor ts are purchased on an f .o .b. basis, and sh ipmen ts are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Bu rma Five Star Sh ipp ing Corpora- tion whenever possible. All payments for imports are made th rough the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank. State economic enterprises ob ta in foreign exchange d irec t ly from the My anma Foreign Trade Bank w i t h in the approved fore ign exchange budget on endorsement by the respective m in i s t r ie s. Foreign exchange allocations can be transferred by a m in i s t ry from one enterprise to another; transfers among m in i s t r ies require cabinet approval. Payments for Invisibles All payments for inv is ib les are subject to licensing. In general, paymen ts for items connected w i th foreign trade are allowed a u t om a t i c a l l y, and paymen ts for most other purposes, i n c l u d i ng transfers of profits, interest, and d iv idend s, are considered on a case-by-case basis. Payments for membersh ip fees to educa t ional or tech- n ical i n s t i t u t i o ns abroad and paymen ts for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are, as a rule, allowed free ly. Fam i ly rem i t tances are perm i t ted on ly for foreign techn ic ians emp loyed under contract by the Govern- m en t, the l im it being one ha lf of the net salary if the w i fe is l iv ing abroad, and one th ird of the net salary if the wife is l i v i ng in Bu rma. Rem i t tances of insurance paymen ts are considered on a case-by-case basis. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employees who served the Government as Burmese na t iona ls but ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution took up foreign citizenship before departure from Burma is not permitted. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post offices are not permitted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by residents have been suspended. However, residents who have been granted an official permit to travel abroad for any other purpose may take out freely the equivalent of K 100 in the currency of the country of destination or, if that currency is not available, in U .S. dollar notes. Travel for medical reasons is authorized on a case-by- case basis. Travel for educational purposes is authorized only in connection with state scholarships. Otherwise, Burmese nationals are not allowed to travel abroad except on official missions or for employment abroad. On leaving, nonresident travelers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert the remaining balance of the kyats obtained by conversion of foreign currency. The export of Burmese currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. There is also a list of prohibited exports comprising iron and steel, brass, copper, and aluminum and scrap thereof, foreign manufactures, and commodities of domestic origin which need to be conserved for domestic require- ments. Exports are generally effected by the MEIC, although timber, rubber, jute, fish and fish products, coffee, hides and skins, minerals, and petroleum and petroleum products may be exported directly by the respective state economic enterprises. Rice is exported by the Agriculture and Farm Produce Trade Corporation in the name of the MEIC. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities and surrendered to the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank within six months from the date of shipment. Certain exports are subsidized through the Export Price Equalization Fund Account. When exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c . i .f. basis are usually shipped by the Burma Five Star Shipping Corporation or on vessels chartered or nominated by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered. Travelers may bring in, subject to declaration, any amount in foreign currency; foreign nationals who intend to stay for more than six months must surrender all foreign exchange in their possession unless special BURMA permission is given to the contrary. The import of Burmese currency is prohibited. Burmese nationals working abroad under permission from the Government are required to repatriate at least 10 percent of their gross earnings in foreign exchange. Capital There is no foreign investment code as such; in principle, investment proposals are considered by an Investment Committee to ascertain whether the proposed enterprise will utilize domestic raw materials, increase domestic employment, conserve foreign exchange, and generally conform to the economic plans of the Govern- ment. However, permission has not been granted for any foreign private investment in Burma since 1963. All outward transfers of capital require prior approval. Residents are not permitted to remit funds abroad for investment. The repatriation of personal assets and the making of family remittances have been suspended, with minor exceptions, for foreign nationals employed in the private sector; those employed in the public sector may remit their personal savings when leaving the service. When the transfer abroad of payments in favor of nonresidents is not permitted, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to external accounts in kyats. All debits and credits to these accounts require prior permission. Individual licenses are required for the import, export, and transfer of securities involving nonresident interests. Gold Residents may hold and trade in gold jewelry, gold coin, and unworked gold in Burma. Licenses for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Burma subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The export of personal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repatri- ated. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to the customs when it was brought into Burma. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments February 28. Forward sales of foreign exchange for imports were suspended. July 18. The opening of letters of credit for imports of capital goods on a cash basis was made subject to prior approval by the Budget Department. 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Bu rundi is the Bu rundi Franc, wh ich is pegged to the SDR at FBu 122.70 = SDR 1. The official buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar on December 31, 1983 were FBu 116.82 and FBu 118.00, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for 19 curren- cies1 are quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Bu rundi (the central bank) on the basis of its fixed rate for the SDR and the transaction value of these currencies in terms of the SDR. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transactions at the buy ing and selling rates established by the Bank of the Republic of Bu rundi for currencies quoted by that Bank. An exchange fee of 2 per mill is collected on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the Bank of the Repub l ic of Burund i; authority to carry out some transactions is delegated to three authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements relating to trade w i th Rwanda and Zaire in products specified in the commercial agreements be- tween these countries are effected through convertible currency accounts maintained with the central bank and authorized banks of each signatory coun try. With these exceptions, outgoing payments may be made and re- ceipts may be obtained in any currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Bu rund i. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in convertible Bu rundi francs may be maintained, subject to the approval of the Bank of the Republic of Bu rund i, by (1) physical persons of foreign nationality, such as diplomats, who are tempo- rarily established in Burundi and are not considered as residents, and (2) jur id ical persons of foreign nationality with special status, such as foreign embassies and international organizations. These accounts may be credited freely w i th the proceeds of foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Bu rund i, and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs for any normal current payments in Bu rundi and for conversion into foreign exchange (except bank notes). All other debits and credits require the prior approval of the Bank of the Republic of Bu rund i. These accounts do not bear interest and must not be overdrawn. 'Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Dan ish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese yen, Kenya sh i l l ings, Ne ther lands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tanzania sh i l l ings, Uganda sh i l l ing s, U.S. dollars, and za'ires. 1 16 Certain nonresidents may ma in ta in Nonresident Ac- counts in Foreign Currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the Bank of the Repub l ic of Bu rundi and is restricted to (1) physical persons of foreign nationality who are resident abroad and (2) jur id ical persons having branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Bu rundi that is received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Burundi francs for any payments in Burundi and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Bu rundi francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped from South Africa are prohibited. All imports require licenses, except trade samples w i thout commercial value and merchandise not intended for sale whose declared con- sumer value c. & f. Bu jumbu ra is FBu 50,000 or less. Importers have been instructed not to order abroad certain goods of wh ich domestic stocks are adequate or that are produced locally. Applications for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic of Burundi through an authorized bank. The approval of such an application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. W i th specified exceptions, authorized banks approve applications for licenses w i th a value not exceeding FBu 500,000 f.o.b. for transactions involving surface transportation; applications for amounts in ex- cess of FBu 500,000 require the approval of the Bank of the Republic of Bu rund i. A license is valid for 12 months starting on the first day of the month following its va l ida t ion, but exceptions may be granted by the Bank of the Repub l ic of Bu rund i. An administrative tax amount- ing to 1 percent of the f.o.b. value of the goods is collected at the time of validation of the license. All goods imported into Bu rundi must be insured by the approved Bu rundi insurer, and premiums must be paid in Bu rundi francs. All consignments of imports exceeding FBu 500,000 in value are subject to preshipment inspection w i th regard to qua l i ty, quan t i ty, and price comparison by the Societe Generate de Surveillance (SGS) acting for the Bu rundi authorities. In pr inc ip le, foreign exchange is made available at the time of shipment of the goods. For goods under global licenses, foreign exchange is not made available until after customs clearance. All imports are subject to a statistical tax of 3 percent ad valorem, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Shipping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with a Burundi insurer. Upon presenta- tion of evidence of payment of taxes, foreign nationals residing and working in Burundi are permitted to transfer freely up to 60 percent of their net annual income. Private joint-stock companies may freely and im- mediately transfer a portion of the return on foreign capital and of the share allocated to foreign directors not exceeding 50 percent of the profits for the budget year, net of corporation tax and the tax on capital income. Transfer of the balance of the profits may be authorized subsequently: 25 percent after two years and the final 25 percent after five years. Profits awaiting remittance are to be deposited in the Caisse de Mobilisation et de Financement (CAMOFI), and interest earned on such deposits is eligible for transfer. However, enterprises that have obtained approved status under the Investment Code may obtain a guarantee of full transferability of net declared profits. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are authorized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unremitted savings or the sale proceeds of their personal effects. Transfer of income from rental proper- ties to nonresident owners is permitted up to 50 percent of net rental income (after payment of taxes and deduction of 20 percent for maintenance expenses); the remainder, plus any accrued interest, may be transferred three years later, provided that the funds have been held on deposit with a domestic financial institution. Resident owners of foreign nationality may remit the same proportion of such income. Residents may apply for exchange needed for foreign travel. There is no fixed limit on the amount that may be allocated, which depends on the nature of the travel. All travelers may take out up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi bank notes. In addition, residents may freely purchase foreign travel tickets, up to reasonable amounts, against payment in Burundi francs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports valued above FBu 10,000 require completion of prior declaration requirements, which must be presented for certification by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi through an authorized bank. Declarations are valid for six months, but extensions may be granted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Payments must be collected within 90 days of the date of export declaration at the customs. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days of their collection. Exports of arabica coffee and of natural robusta coffee from the Rumonge region are the mono- poly of the Burundi Coffee Company. Virtually all exports, including coffee in some cases, are subject to export taxes and a statistical tax. Exports of manufac- tured goods may receive a refund of duties paid, BURUNDI provided that they incorporate raw materials on which import duty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign bank notes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi bank notes. Capital The Investment Code of August 25, 1967 provides tax and other benefits for domestic and foreign private investors. A new Investment Law, adopted on April 4, 1979, revised some of the investment procedures. Under the Investment Code new investments that fulfill speci- fied conditions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the investment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, during a period of 5 years, for other merchandise needed for the manufacturing opera- tion or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may likewise be reduced or suspended. Enterprises granted priority status may ob- tain some protection against foreign competition, prior- ity in the allocation of government contracts, and a guarantee from the Bank of the Republic for the free transfer of profits and dividends and the repatriation of the invested capital. In addition to these privileges, companies undertaking investments that are considered to be of prime importance to Burund i's economic development may be granted, under a separate agree- ment, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for 15 years. An investment commis- sion under the Ministry of the Presidency in charge of the Plan is responsible for examining requests for priority status and granting the necessary authorization. In addition, under the new law, Burundi guarantees each foreign investor the right to move into the country; foreign investors are also assured an allocation of foreign exchange for the purchase of raw materials and products abroad as well as for the repayment of loans taken out under the investment agreement. Capital transfers by residents require individual authorization, as does foreign capital on which a repatri- ation guarantee has been granted. The guarantee is furnished for foreign exchange imported by resident enterprises to provide working capital in foreign ex- change; it applies to any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi and is valid for a one- year period and is renewable. The guarantee provides for the transfer of the original amount surrendered at the official rate ruling on the day of transfer. Under the new law, Burundi also guarantees the repatriation of invested capital in the event of sale or shutdown of the business. 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI Gold Transactions in gold are unrestricted. Gold purchase and export transactions must be effected through ap- proved agencies, and a security deposit of US$60,000 must be made to ensure satisfactory completion of transactions. To be eligible to transact in gold, an annual fee of US$20,000 must also be paid. A tax of 7 percent ad valorem is levied on exports of unrefined gold. Proceeds from gold exports need not be repatriated. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangements November 23. The Burundi franc, which had been pegged to the U.S. dollar at FBu 90 = US$1 since May 1976, was pegged to the SDR at a rate of FBu 122.70 = SDR 1. Taking into account the U.S. dollar/SDR relationship prevailing on Novem- ber 23, 1983, this action involved a 22.9 percent depreciation of the Burundi franc against the U.S. dollar (29.8 percent in local currency terms). Gold September 19. The monopoly position of the central bank of Burundi in regard to gold transactions was abolished. 118 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cameroon is the CFA Franc,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.50 percent is levied on transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except transfers in respect of central and local government operations, payments for imports covered by a duly issued license domiciled with a bank, scheduled repay- ments on loans properly obtained abroad, travel allow- ances paid by the government and its agencies for official missions, and payments of reinsurance pre- miums. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Came- roon's exchange control measures generally do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Ter- ritories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, the Central African Re- public, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely, but all financial transfers in excess of CFAF 500,000 to countries of the French Franc Area must be declared to the authorities for statistical pur- poses. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Economic Controls and External Finance in the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions relating to all coun- tries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, that is, the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Since Cameroon is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks !The CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, and Gabon. in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements between Cameroon and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when mailed to the National Directorate of the BEAC in Yaounde* by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. The import from all sources of certain "controlled" goods requires a special authorization (autorisation speciale d'importa- tion), in addition to an import license. All other imports, irrespective of origin, are subject to licensing when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more (CFAF 1 million or more in the case of large retail stores), but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Import transactions by residents involving goods for use outside Cameroon must be domiciled with a bank in the country of final destination. Settlements for imports effected under an import license benefit from the authorization of uninterrupted transfer given to the authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Payments in excess of CFAF 500,000 for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require prior declaration but are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely, subject to declaration, when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Came- roon must be surrendered. The corresponding allocation for business travel is CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 450,000 a trip. In practice, addi- tional allocations may be allowed. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited, in principle, to 50 percent of the income declared for taxation purposes, net of tax. Remittances for current repair and manage- 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON ment of real property abroad are no rma l ly l im i ted to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. Depending on fam i ly s ta tus, the transfer of 20 percent or 50 percent of the salary of a foreigner wo rk ing in Cameroon is permitted upon presentation of the appro- priate pay voucher, provided that the t rans fer takes place w i th in one month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of foreigners wo rk ing in Cameroon tempo ra r i ly, payments of insurance p rem iums to fore ign coun tr ies are not permitted if the same type of insurance is ava i lab le in Cameroon. Resident and nonresident travelers to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BEAC bank notes. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area m ay, subject to prior declaration, take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on en t ry, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are p roh ib i ted. Export transactions valued at CFAF 50,000 or more mu st be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Exports to all countries are subject to domiciliation requ iremen ts for the appropriate documen ts. Proceeds from exports to all countries mu st be repatriated w i t h in 15 days of the payment date s t ipu la ted in the sales con t rac t, and proceeds received in currencies, other than those of France or an Operations Account coun t ry, mu st be surrendered w i t h in a mon th after collection. Paymen ts for exports mu st be made w i t h in 30 days from the arr ival date of the merchandise at its des t ina t ion. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions i n ' i n v i s i b l es w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be re ta ined. All amoun ts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those coun t r ies from foreign assets, must be collected w i th in a month of the due date and surrendered w i t h in a mon th of collection if received in foreign currency. Res ident and nonres ident trave lers may b r ing in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as we ll as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold co in) of coun tr ies ou t s ide the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange con t ro l. Capital t rans fe rs to all other coun t r ies requ ire exchange control approval and are restricted, but cap i tal receipts from such coun- tries are permitted f ree ly. Em ig ran ts to coun t r ies ou ts ide the French Franc Area may t ran s fer abroad th e ir f u ll savings, provided that they have met the ir tax ob l iga t ions. 120 W i th the excep t ion of controls over the sale or in troduc t ion of foreign securities in Cameroon, the controls on cap i tal movemen ts do not app ly to re la t ions w i th France (as def ined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun t r ie s. A ll fo re ign securities and t i t l es embody ing c l a ims on non res iden ts mu st be depos- ited w i th an au tho r ized in te rmed ia ry and be c lass i f ied as fo re ign, wh e th er they be long to res iden ts or non re s iden t s. Direct inve s tmen ts ab road2 requ ire the prior approval of the M i n i s t ry of F inance, un le ss they take the form of a cap i tal increase r e su l t ing from re inves tment of und is- tributed profits; the f u ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of such inve s tmen ts requ i res on ly a report after the fact to the M in i s t er of F inance, un l e ss the operation invo lves the r e l i n q u i s h i ng of a pa r t ic ipa t ion that had prev ious ly been approved as c o n s t i t u t i ng a direct inve s tment abroad. Foreign d irect inve s tmen ts in Cameroon3 requ ire prior dec lara t ion to the M i n i s t er of F inance, un less they take the form of a cap i tal increase r e s u l t i ng from re inves tment of u n d i s t r i b u t ed p ro f i t s; th e ^M in i s t er has a period of two mon ths from receipt of the declaration d u r i ng wh ich he may request pos tponemen t. The f u ll or par t ial l iqu ida t ion of d irect inv e s tm en ts in Cameroon requ ires on ly report- ing to the M i n i s t er of F inance, un le ss the operation invo lv es the r e l i n q u i s h i ng of a pa r t ic ipa t ion that had p rev iou s ly been approved as con s t i tu t ing a direct inves t- ment in Cameroon. Bo th the m ak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of d irect inv e s tm en t s, whe ther these are Cameroonian inv e s tm en ts abroad or fore ign inve s tmen ts in Cameroon, mu st be reported to the M in i s t er of F inance w i t h in 20 days f o l l ow i ng each opera t ion. Direct inve s tmen ts are de f ined as inv e s tm en ts im p l y i ng control of a company or en te rp r ise. Mere p a r t i c i p a t i on is not considered as direct i n v e s tm e n t, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the c ap i t al of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock ex ch ang e. The i s s u i n g, adv e r t i s ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign secu r i t ies in Cameroon requ i res prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in is ter of F inance, and must subsequently be reported to h im. Exempt from au tho r iza t ion, however, and sub ject o n ly to a report af ter the fac t, are operations in connec t ion w i th ( 1) loans backed by a guaran tee from the Came roon ian Gove rnment and (2) shares s im i lar to secu r i t ies whose i s sue, adv e r t i s ing, or o f fe r ing for sale in Cameroon has a l ready been au tho r ized. Bo r row ing abroad by phy s ical or ju r id i c al persons, wh e th er p u b l ic or p r iv a t e, whose no rmal residence or registered off ice is in Cameroon, or by branches or s u b s i d i a r i es in Cameroon of j u r i d i c al persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the M i n i s t er of F inance, and mu st sub sequen t ly be reported to h im. The f o l l ow i ng are, however, exempt 2 I n c l u d i ng those made t h r o u gh fo re ign compan ies th at a re d i r e c t ly or i n d i r e c t ly c o n t r o l l ed by pe rsons in Cameroon and those made by b ranches or s u b s i d i a r i es abroad, of compan ies in Cameroon. ^ I n c l u d i ng those made by compan ies in Cameroon that a re d i rec t ly or i n d i r e c t ly u n d er f o r e i gn con t rol and those made by b ranches or s u b s i d i a r i es in Cameroon of fo re ign comp an i e s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from this authorization, and require only a report: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or be- tween foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by physical and juridical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from prior authorization, and require only a report: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or be- tween foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not exceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 percent a year. An Investment Code promulgated in 1960 and revised in April 1964 established four categories of fiscal and other benefits that may be granted to both foreign and domestic firms undertaking approved new industrial or agricultural projects in Cameroon. The scope and dura- tion of the benefits vary depending on the size of the investment, the degree to which it helps implement the economic and social development plan, and its impor- tance to national economic growth. Category A permits mainly duty-free entry of capital goods and raw materials required for manufacturing and processing. Under Cate- gory B, firms may be entitled to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for five years from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and from various other taxes and fees. Under Category C, large companies may conclude an "establishment agreement" with the Govern- CAMEROON ment, under which special conditions for the operations of the company are agreed and the nature and extent of tax concessions are determined. An "establishment agreement" is normally valid for 25 years and defines the legal, economic, and financial guarantees granted to the company, including the assurance of stable conditions for financial transfers and marketing of goods. Category D enables firms making investments of particular signifi- cance to the national economy to enjoy the benefits of Category C, as well as a guarantee of stability of taxation for up to 25 years. Ordinance No. 73/27 of August 30, 1973 provided that public entities should hold at least one third of the share capital of each banking institution and that the headquarters of each banking institution should be in Cameroon. This ordinance also required banks with foreign majority participation to submit to the monetary authorities information on all their current transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the structure of their equity holdings. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is normally given only to industrial users, including jewelers. New ly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1983 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Canada is the Canadian Dollar. The authorities of Canada do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market; however, the authorities intervene from time to time to maintain orderly conditions in that market. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The closing interbank market rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1983 was Can$ 1.2444 per US$1. Forward exchange rates are similarly determined in the market and it is not the practice of the authorities to intervene. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. On March 25, 1952 Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required only for certain drugs; a few agricultural items; certain textile products, clothing, and footwear; certain endangered species of fauna and flora; natural gas; and material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy. For some agricul- tural items, such as certain dairy products, licenses are generally not being issued. Commercial imports of certain commodities from any source are tightly con- trolled or prohibited; the main products affected are oleomargarine and used automobiles. Imports of nonrub- ber footwear are subject to a global quota. Imports of clothing and certain textile products from low-cost sources are subject to bilateral agreements. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds from exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For supply reasons, the export of a few commodities to all destinations is under export control. These include crude petroleum, certain petroleum products, and natural gas, most of which are sold to the United States. For security reasons, there is export control on strategic goods to all destinations except the United States. All exports to Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Re- public and East Berlin, Hungary, the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., and Viet Nam are subject to control, although certain goods of Canadian origin may be exported to these destinations under the authority of a general export permit. All exporters are eligible for certain financial facilities operated by the Export Development Corporation (EDC), including political risk insurance. 122 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements are imposed on exchange payments for, or exchange receipts from, invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Apart from specific restrictions in the financial, broad- casting, and uranium sectors, inward direct investment is governed by the Foreign Investment Review Act. This stipulates that the acquisition of control over a Canadian business enterprise by persons other than Canadians, or the establishment of a new business by such persons not previously established in Canada, or whose proposed new business is unrelated to their existing business in Canada, will be allowed if it is assessed that such investments are of significant benefit to Canada. A Foreign Investment Review Agency is charged with the review of proposed takeovers and the screening of the establishment of new businesses. There are no controls over outward direct investment, nor over inward or outward portfolio investment. The domestic assets of a foreign-owned bank operating in Canada must not exceed 20 times its authorized capital; the total domestic assets of all such banks must not exceed 8 percent of the total domestic assets of all banks operating in Canada. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. However, exports of gold and all other products containing gold to countries named in the Area Control List require an export permit from the Minister of Industry, Trade, and Commerce under the authority of the Export and Import Permits Act. Gold of U.S. origin requires a permit when re- exported to all countries except the United States. Commercial imports of articles containing minor quan- tities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Legal tender gold coins with a face value of Can$100 have been issued annually since 1976, and Can$50 "bullion" coins, containing 1 ounce of gold, have also been issued since 1979. Beginning in 1982, Can$10 and Can$5 coins containing V* and 'Xio ounce of gold, respectively, have also been issued. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Export restraint agreements for the four- year period 1983-86 came into effect with respect to exports of clothing and textile items from Pakistan and Hungary to Canada. January 1. Tariff reductions were effected on a most- favored-nation basis, in line with the agreed schedule ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution under the Tokyo Round of Multilateral Trade Negotia- tions (MTN); proportionate reductions were also made in a number of tariffs under the Generalized System of Tariff Preferences (GSP) for developing countries. January 1. Under a series of measures scheduled for the period through the end of 1985, the Government continued the withdrawal of the general preferential tariff on rubber footwear and color television sets. January 13. A list of 31 countries designated as least developed countries was adopted, and it was announced that imports eligible under the GSP would be duty free when imported from such countries. February 1. Tariff reductions were effected on a number of products in connection with the reaction of the EC to the imposition by Canada of quotas on imports of leather footwear. February 17. Retroactive to January 1, 1983 further tariff concessions were effected on imports of linerboard and solid bleached boxboard in conclusion of actions between Canada and the United States within the framework of the MTN. April 20. As part of budget legislation, the following changes were made in the tariff system: (a) im- provements in the Generalized System of Tariff Prefer- ences (GSP) for developing countries, including exten- sion of the GSP for 10 years and new or lower GSP rates for a broad range of products; (b) increases in the value limits on dutiable and duty-free goods that could be brought back by Canadian tourists; and (c) higher duty rates on certain machinery parts (to be implemented on completion of GATT negotiations) and lower tariffs on a number of goods, including firebrick and other refrac- tories, electronic carillons, crawler machines and engines, and mixing consoles and tape recorders for sound recording studios. April 27. Canada ratified a restraint agreement with Uruguay with respect to the latter's exports of worsted fabric to Canada during the period 1982-86. May 6. A restraint arrangement was negotiated with Brazil with respect to the latter's export of acrylic yarns to Canada during the period June 1983-December 1986. June 16. The threshold levels triggering government- to-government consultation on Canada's imports of acrylic yarn and blouses and shirts from Malaysia were converted into specific restraint levels for the period 1983-86, inclusive. June 27. The Government announced a renewed understanding with Japan, under which exports of Japanese passenger cars to Canada would not exceed 202,600 units during the period January 1, 1983 to March 31, 1984, or 153,000 units during the fiscal year. The announcement followed an interim understanding in February 1983 that exports of Japanese passenger cars to Canada would not exceed 79,000 units during the period January 1, 1983-June 30, 1983. June 30. The following tariff features of the new offshore policy announced by the Government on Jan- uary 6, 1983 came into effect: (a) extension of the Customs and Excise regime beyond the 12-mile territo- CANADA rial limit, to all goods (such as ships, floating structures, pipe, machinery, and consumables) used in natural resource-related activities on the Canadian continental shelf; (b) elimination of the tariff preferences on Com- monwealth ships for the coasting trade, as well as the preferences on other ships and floating structures from Commonwealth and developing countries; and (c) tariff adjustments, including a reduction of the tariff on floating drilling equipment from 25 percent to 20 percent and clarification of the dutiable status of ships and floating structures. July 21. Following a large increase in imports of clothing items in the first half of 1983, the Government announced a series of support measures for the Canadian clothing industry, including stricter inspection of cloth- ing imports by customs officials to ensure that they conform to Canada's existing domestic marking and labeling regulations. In addition, the Government ex- pressed its intention to use the orderly marketing provisions in Canada's bilateral arrangements with Hong Kong, Korea, the People's Republic of China, and Taiwan* to prevent disruptive concentrations of clothing imports during any one calendar quarter of the year and to seek to eliminate the flexibility provisions in these arrangements. August 9. A one-year agreement was reached for 1983 on the level of imports to Canada of tailored collared shirts from Indonesia. Agreement was also reached on the establishment of an export licensing arrangement for all Indonesian clothing exports to Canada. August 19. Import quotas for leather and nonleather footwear were modified to exempt women's leather and nonleather shoes of size 10*/2 (metric size 43) and above, as well as certain specialty sports footwear, including leather and nonleather cycling shoes, weight-lifting, boxing, and wrestling boots, nonleather shotput and discus shoes, spiked footwear, cleated baseball foot- wear, and vulcanized squash and volleyball shoes. August 22. Beef and veal were added to the Export and Import Control List under an intergovernmental arrangement between Canada and the United States. Exports of U.S. beef and veal to Canada in 1983 were limited to 10.4 million kilograms (23 million pounds) under the arrangement. September 2. Quantitative limits were announced on Canadian imports of hosiery from Singapore for the period January 1984-December 1986. Exports and Export Proceeds August 22. Beef and veal were added to the Export and Import Control List under an intergovernmental arrangement between Canada and the United States. Exports of Canadian beef and veal for 1983 to the United States were limited to 58.9 million kilograms (130 mil- lion pounds) under the arrangement. tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 52. 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAPE VERDE (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cape Verde is the Cape Verde Escudo, which is pegged to a weighted basket of currencies representing nine important trading partners. The exchange rate of the Cape Verde escudo in terms of the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U .S. dollar and the other currencies included in the basket. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the con- trol of the Directorate of Foreign Relations and Ex- change Control (DRECC), which is a department of the central bank, the Bank of Cape Verde. All imports, exports, and re-exports are subject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C .V. Esc 2,500. Foreign exchange transactions, including the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds, are effected through the central bank. Prescription of Currency The central bank determines the currency in which export proceeds should be repatriated. Cape Verde has bilateral payments agreements with Angola and Sao Tome and Principe. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open demand deposit accounts in local currency. These accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from the sale of receipts of convertible currencies and may be debited for payment of any obligations in Cape Verde. Outward transfers from such accounts may be made freely. Embassies and foreign officials of embassies are required to open special accounts in foreign currency and in local currency. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C .V. Esc 2,500. Licenses, which are issued by the General Directorate of Com- merce in the Ministry of Economy and Finance, require the visa of the central bank and are generally valid for 180 days, but are renewable. The provision of foreign exchange is guaranteed when the license is approved by the central bank. Licenses are granted liberally for imports of medicines, capital goods, and other devel- opment-related equipment. Imports of nonessentials are restricted. C .V. Esc 6,000 a person a year (C .V. Esc 3,000 for children under 15 years). When traveling accompanied by his fam i ly, a resident of Cape Verde may take out in foreign currency the equ iva lent of C .V. Esc 6,000 plus C .V. Esc 4,000 for each fam i ly member under 15, but the total transfer for each fam i ly may not exceed the equivalent of C .V. Esc 20,000. Cape Verdean nationals going on tourist trips abroad are required to buy round- trip tickets in advance or make a deposit equivalent to a one-way ticket to the country of destination; this deposit is refunded upon return to Cape Verde. Cape Verdean nationals studying abroad are allowed up to a maximum of C .V. Esc 6,000 on leaving the country, and students who do not hold scholarships are, in addition, en- titled to C .V. Esc 5,000 a month. The equivalent of C .V. Esc 20,000 is authorized for each business trip and C .V. Esc 15,000 a trip for medical treatment; these latter amounts may be increased upon presentation of evidence of need. Transfers by foreign technical assistance personnel working in Cape Verde are authorized w i th in the limits specified in the ind iv idual contracts. Requests by other foreigners are examined on a case-by-case basis. The export of domestic currency by travelers is prohibited. Foreign travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency but may re-export only the amount of currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to licensing, except for transactions not exceeding C .V. Esc 2,500. Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months from the date of issuance of the license, but this period may be extended. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. The import of Cape Verdean bank notes is prohibited. Capital Any private capital transaction must be approved in advance by the DRECC, but legally imported capital may be re-exported without limitation. The export of resi- dent-owned capital is not normally permitted. Gold Imports, exports, or re-exports of gold either in coin or bars require prior licensing by the monetary authorities. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior authoriza- tion. Transfers for tourism are limited to a max imum of Changes During 1983 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 124 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1983} Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Central A f r ican R epub l ic is the CFA Franc ,! wh ich is pegged to the French f ranc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1, free of comm iss ion. B u y i ng and se l l ing rates for certain other foreign currencies are also o f f i- cially posted, w i th quo ta t ions based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange ma rke t. A comm iss ion of 0.25 percent is levied on all cap i tal transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of students. There are no taxes or subs id ies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. W i th the exception of those re la t ing to gold, the exchange control measures of the Central A f r i c an Re- public do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is l ink ed w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (B e n i n, Cameroon, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Ma l i, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all paymen ts to these coun t r ies may be made free ly. All other countries are considered fore ign countries. Administration of Control All draft leg is la t ion, directives, correspondence, and contracts hav ing a direct or ind i rect bea r ing on the finances of the State requ i re the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his app roval authority to the Director of the Budge t. The Au tonomous Amortization Fund (CAADE) in the M i n i s t ry of F inance supervises borrowing abroad, w h i le the Office of For- eign Financial Re la t ions in the same m i n i s t ry supervises lending abroad, i s su ing, adve r t i s ing, or o f f e r ing for sale foreign securities in the Central A f r ican R e p u b l i c, and inward and outward direct inves tmen t. Exchange control is administered by the M in i s ter of F inance, who has delegated some of his approval au tho r i ty to the BEAC ,2 to the authorized banks, and to the Postal Adm in i s t r a- tion. All exchange transactions re la t ing to fore ign coun- tries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of For- eign Trade in the M in i s t ry of Commerce and I n d u s t r y, except those for gold, wh ich are issued by the BEAC. 'The CFA f ranc c i r c u l a t i ng in the Cen tral A f r i c an R e p u b l ic is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1 'A f r ique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, Congo, and Gabon. 2The au tho r i ty delegated to the BEAC relates to ( I) the con t rol over the ex te rnal position of the b ank s, (2) the g r a n t i ng of excep t ional t ravel a l loca t ions in excess of the basic a l lowances, and (3) the con trol over the repa tr ia t ion of net export proceeds. Prescription of Currency Since the Central A f r ican Repub l ic is an Operations Account coun t ry, se t t lemen ts w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other i n s t i t u te of issue that m a in t a ins an Opera- t ions Account w i th the French Treasury. Settlements w i th all o ther coun tr ies are u su a l ly made in any of the currencies of those coun tr ies or in French francs through Foreign Accoun ts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions pe r ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those app l ied in France. The p r inc ipal nonresi- dent accoun ts are Foreign Accounts in Francs. BEAC bank notes received by the foreign correspondents of au tho r ized banks and ma i led to the BEAC agency in B angui by the Bank of France or the Banque Centrale des Etats de I 'A f r i q ue de TOuest (BCEAO) may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are suspended. The import from all coun tr ies of a few commodities that are also produced domes t ica l ly is proh ib i ted. The import of cer ta in foods tu f fs is not authorized unless local produc- t ion of these commod i t ies is inadequa te. Imports of certain goods, when not o r ig ina t ing in a member country of the Central A f r i c an Customs and Economic U n i on (UDEAC ), may be made on ly in given ratios to purchases of the local produc t. The import of firearms is proh ib i ted irrespective of origin. All other imports from coun t r ies in the French Franc Area may be made freely and w i t h o ut an impo rt license. A ll other imports from EC coun t r ies ( the or ig inal member states) also are free from q u a n t i t a t i ve restrictions. Imports from a ll coun tr ies ou ts ide the French Franc Area are subject to licensing w i t h in the f ramewo rk of an annual import program. A ll impo rt transac t ions re la t ing to foreign coun tr ies must be dom ic i led w i th an au thor ized bank. The import license en t i t les impor ters to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documen ts are subm i t ted to the au tho r ized bank. There has been some accrual of arrears on ex te rnal paymen ts ow ing to the imposition of s ta tu to ry ce i l ings on central bank credit to the Govern- ment and an en su ing shortage of domestic currency w i th wh i ch to purchase foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for i n v i s i b l es to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies are perm i t ted f ree ly; those to other coun tr ies are subject to approva l. For many types of payment the approval au tho r i ty has been delegated to authorized banks. 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been ap- proved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; of this allocation, an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 25,000 may be taken out in foreign bank notes. Any exchange in excess of the equ iva lent of CFAF 5,000 that remains after return to the Central African Repub l ic must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equ iva lent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a m ax imum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to certain listed countries; the allocation for business travel to any other foreign country is CFAF 15,000 a day, up to CFAF 150,000 a trip; of th is allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 5,000 may be taken out in foreign bank notes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Central African Repub l ic is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a m ax imum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes issued by any other institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency and other foreign means of payment up to the amount declared by them on entry; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BEAC bank notes in to foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are suspended. All exports of cotton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanuts, palm o i l, meat, and diamonds require a license. All other exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All exports to countries outside th is area require licenses, wh ich are issued freely. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated w i th in one month from the due date; the latter must not be later than 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authorization is obtained. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export trans- actions must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amoun ts due from 126 residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected w i t h in a mon th of the due date and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered w i th in a month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may br ing in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue m a in t a in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central Afr ican Re- pub l ic and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrowing by the Government or its pub l ic and sem ipub l ic enterprises, as well as all foreign borrowing w i th a government guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Director of the Budget. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lend ing abroad, over inward and outward direct inves tmen t, and over the issu ing, adver- t i s ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central A f r ican Repub l ic; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those controls over the sale or in troduc t ion of foreign securities in the Central African Repub l ic, the measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct inves tmen ts abroad3 require the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resu l t ing from reinvestment of undis- tributed profits; the f u ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of such investments also requires the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Finance un less the operation involves the re l inqu i sh ing of a participation that had previously been approved as cons t i tu t ing a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central African Re- pub l i c4 must be declared to the M in is ter of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of und is t r ibu ted profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration du r ing wh ich he may request postponement. The f u ll or pa r t ial l iqu ida t ion of direct investments in the Central African Repub l ic must also be declared to the M in is te r, unless the operation involves the re l inqu ish ing 3I n c l u d i ng those made th rough foreign companies that are directly or ind i rec t ly con tro l led by persons in the Central A f r ican Repub l ic and those made by branches or subs id iar ies abroad of companies in the Central A f r ican Repub l ic. Inc lud ing those made by companies in the Central African Republic that are d irec t ly or ind i rec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies in the Central African R e p u b l i c. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting a direct investment in the Central A f r ican Republic. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of direct investments, whether these are Central A f r ican Repub l ic investments abroad or foreign investments in the Central African Repub l ic, must be reported to the M in is ter w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each operation. Direct inves t- ments are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in the Central A f r ican Repub l ic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Govern- ment and (2) shares similar to securities whose i s su ing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Central A f r ican Republic has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by phys ical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or private, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Repub l ic, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Repub l ic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of F inance. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct inves tment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected w i th the render ing of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or w i th the f inanc ing of commercial transac t ions either between the Central Afr ican Repub l ic and coun- tries abroad or between foreign coun t r ies, in wh ich those persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those men- tioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Off ice of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation, un- less the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is less than CFAF 500,000. Lending abroad by phys ical or ju r id i c al persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Repub l ic, or by branches or subs id iar ies in the Central Afr ican Repub l ic of ju r id ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authori- zation by the Minister of Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from th is au thor iza t ion: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans when the CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC total amount ou ts tand ing of the loans does not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l i on for any one lender. The mak ing of loans that are free of au tho r iza t ion, and each repayment thereon, mu st be reported to the Office of Foreign F inanc ial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of September 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of December 14, 1965, indu s t r ia l, tou r is t, ag r i cu l tu r a l, and m in ing enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Central A f r ican Repub l ic are gran ted, under certain cond i t ions, a reduction in du t ies and taxes on the import of specified equ ipmen t; in add i t ion, certain enterprises receive ex- emption from direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of preferen- t ial trea tment in accordance w i th wh ich f iscal and other privileges may be accorded to f irms investing in new enterprises or in the expansion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Reques ts for approval for p re fe ren t ial trea tment must be subm i t ted to the M in is ter of Indu s t ry, who is the Chairman of the Investment Commission wh ich con- siders the app l ica t ion. If a positive decision has been g iven by the Comm iss ion, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential trea tmen ts A and C are granted by decree issued by the Counc il of M in i s te r s. Preferen t ial trea tment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the former Equatorial Customs Un ion upon the recommendation of the Counc il of M in i s te r s. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central Afr ican Repub l ic. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require a l icense, wh ich is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized purchas- ing o f f ice. Exempt from prior au tho r iza t ion are ( 1) im- ports and expor ts by or on behalf of the Treasury and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles contain- ing a m inor q u a n t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated a r t ic les ). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub ject to cus toms dec lara t ion. Certain compa- nies have been o f f ic ia l ly appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Impo r t, and Export of Gold and Raw D iamonds. Changes During 1983 No s i g n i f i c a nt changes occurred in the exchange and trade sys tem. 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chad is the CFA Franc ,1 wh ich is pegged to the French franc, the in terven t ion currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transac- tions in French francs between the BEAC and commer- cial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buying and selling rates for certain other foreign currencies are also officially posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury and for the expenses of s tuden ts. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Re- pub l ic, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Ma l i, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Office of the M in is ter of Economy and Com- merce supervises borrowing and lend ing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and outward direct investment; it also issues import and export authoriza- tions for gold. Exchange control is also administered by the Minister of Economy and Commerce, who has delegated his approval au thor i ty in part to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions re la t ing to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the M in is t ry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Since Chad is an Operations Account coun try, settlements w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements w i th all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks 'The CFA franc c i rcu la t ing in Chad is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central Afr ican Repub l ic, Congo, and Gabon. 128 in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions pe r ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs ma in- ta ined by the foreign correspondent of an authorized b ank, provided that the notes are ma i led to the BEAC agency in Chad by the correspondent bank concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. Imports of wheat, wheat f lou r, and sugar from all sources require licenses. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area and from EC countries (the original member states), other than France, may be made freely. All imports from non-EC coun tr ies outside the French Franc Area are subject to l icens ing in accordance w i th an annu al import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to imp lement it are deter- m ined by the M in is ter of Economy and Commerce on the basis of proposals drawn up by the Committee on Imports. The import program contains global quotas for im- ports from non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area and a special quota for imports of cotton textiles from countries w i th abnormal competitive advantages. In add i t ion, the program con ta ins global quotas for imports of whea t, wheat f lou r, and sugar from EC coun t r ies, coun t r ies in the French Franc Area, as well as other coun tr ies. Specified imports from certain neigh- bor ing coun tr ies not be long ing to the French Franc Area up to a va lue of CFAF 3 m i l l ion a year in each direction for a single importer may be made through compensation transactions. The issuance of import licenses for sugar and a specified brand of cigarettes has been suspended u n t il fu r ther notice. All import transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an au thor ized b a n k. Import licenses en t i t le import- ers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documen ts are subm i t ted to the authorized bank. Forward cover for imports from foreign countries is permitted on ly for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the Office of the M in is ter of Economy and Commerce. There has been some accumu- lation of arrears on external payments owing to the imposition of statutory ceilings on central bank credit to the Government and an ensu ing shortage of domestic currency w i th wh ich to purchase foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for inv i s ib les to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au thor iza t ion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, d iv i- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when bona fide. Some current payments, however, may be subject to delay. For tourist travel, residents trave l ing to coun tr ies other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip, for any numb er of trips a year. For pilgrimage to Mecca, an add i t ional allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 may be gran ted. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a da i ly allocation of the equ iva lent of CFAF 60,000, w i th a max imum allocation of the equ iva lent of up to CFAF 500,000 a person a trip; the Office of the M in i s ter of Economy and Commerce may approve add i t ional amounts. Travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank notes. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on en t ry, in addition to amounts remitted from foreign bank ac- counts. If no declaration has been made, they may take out up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 150,000, in add i t ion to a max imum of CFAF 30,000 in BEAC bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. All exports to non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses. Specified exports to certain ne ighbo r ing coun- tries, inc lud ing N iger ia and Sudan, may be made through compensation transactions. Exports of cotton are the monopoly of the Societe Cotonniere du Tchad (COTONTCHAD). Export transactions re la t ing to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when the ir v a lue exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received w i t h in 180 days after the arrival of the commod i t ies at the ir de s t ina t ion. The proceeds must be collected, and be surrendered if received in a foreign currency, w i th in one mon th of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in inv is ib les w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and Operations Account countries may be retained. All amoun ts due from residents of other coun tr ies in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and, if received in foreign cu r rency, be CHAD surrendered w i t h in two mon ths of the due date. Resident and non res ident travelers may b r ing in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold co in) and other fore ign means of paymen t. Foreign bank notes and coin in excess of the equ iva lent of CFAF 20,000 b rought in by residents must be exchanged for CFA francs w i t h in eight days of the ir re turn. Capital Cap i tal movemen ts between Chad and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun t r ies are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun t r ies requ ire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted f ree ly. All fore ign securities, foreign currency, and t i t les embody ing claims on foreign coun- tries or nonres iden ts that are held in Chad by residents or nonres iden ts mu st be deposited w i th authorized banks in Chad. Special controls ( add i t ion al to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing and l end ing abroad, over inward and ou tward direct inves tmen t, and over the issu ing, adver- t i s i n g, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transac t ions themselves, not to paymen ts or receipts. W i th the exception of those controls over the sale or in t roduc t ion of foreign securities in Chad, the measures do not app ly to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct inve s tmen ts abroad2 require the prior approval of the M in i s t er of Economy and Commerce, irrespective of the method of f i n a n c i n g; the f u ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of such inve s tmen ts also requires the prior approval of the M in i s t e r. Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Chad3 re- qu i re the pr ior approval of the M in is ter of Economy and Commerce un less they take the form of a mixed- economy en terpr ise. The f u ll or par t ial l iqu ida t ion of direct inve s tmen ts in Chad mu st also be declared to the M in i s te r. Both the m a k i ng and the l iqu id a t ion of direct inve s tmen t s, wh e th er these are Chad ian inves tmen ts abroad or fo re ign inves tmen ts in Chad, must be reported to the M i n i s t er w i t h in 20 days of each operation. Direct inve s tmen ts are de f ined as inve s tmen ts im p l y i ng control of a company or en te rp r ise. The i s su ing, adve r t i s ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign secur i t ies in Chad requires prior au thor iza t ion by the M in i s t er of Economy and Commerce. Exempt from au tho r i z a t ion, however, are operations in connection 2I n c l u d i ng those made t h r o u gh fo re ign compan ies t h at are d i rec t ly or i n d i r e c t ly con t ro l led by persons in Chad and those made by branches or sub s id ia r ies abroad of compan ies in Chad. ^ I n c l u d i ng those made by compan ies in Chad that are d irec t ly or i n d i r e c t ly und er fo re ign control and those made by branches or subs id ia r ies in Chad of fo re ign compan ies. 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Commerce. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or w i th the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of the loan does not exceed CFAF 10 m i l l ion for any one borrower, w i th an interest rate not higher than 7 percent and a ma tur i ty of two years or less. The contracting of loans referred to under (3) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister w i th in 30 days of the operation. Lending abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of jur id ical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Commerce. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 5 m i l l ion for any one lender. The making of loans referred to under (2) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister w i th in 30 days of the operation. Commercial banks must ma in ta in in Chad a specified m in imum proportion of their assets. Under the Inves tment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance w i th which certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Requests for preferential treatment must be sub- mitted to the M in is ter of Economy and Commerce, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. After an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Gold Chad has issued gold coins w i th face values of CFAF 1,000, 3,000, 5,000, 10,000, and 20,000, which are legal tender. Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold unworked gold unless specifically autho- rized. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization by the Office of the Minister of Economy and Commerce and by the Direc- torate of Energy, Mines, and Geology as well as the visa of the Foreign Trade Office. Exempt from this require- ment are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Exports of unworked gold and of raw diamonds (as well as domestic purchases and sales of both) are the monopoly of the Office for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports (BAVIE), which is an approved private company. Un- worked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments April 2. Licenses for the importation of sugar and a specified brand of cigarettes were suspended. September 24. Controls on the importation of textiles were tightened. 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean Peso (Ch$). Beginning December 17, 1983, the official exchange rate of the Chilean peso is pegged to the U .S. dollar, at a rate adjusted at daily intervals on the basis of the domestic rate of inflation during the previous month, less the world rate of inflation estimated for this purpose at not more than 0.5 percent a month. On December 31, 1983 the official exchange rate was Ch$87.50 per US$1. A tax of 12 percent is levied on purchases of foreign exchange for the financing of imports for which licenses had been obtained before March 13, 1983. Foreign exchange dealers, the Banco del Estado, commercial banks, exchange houses, and other authorized entities must trade in foreign exchange only at the official rate, but direct transactions in foreign exchange among private parties can take place at freely negotiated exchange rates provided that they are occasional, non- customary, and without publicity. Commissions on exchange transactions are subject to a 20 percent value- added tax. The exchange rates of the Chilean peso w i th other currencies are determined on the basis of the peso exchange rate with respect to the U .S. dollar, and of the U.S. dollar exchange rate w i th respect to other curren- cies quoted in foreign markets. A preferential exchange rate was established on September 3, 1982 as a basis for computing a subsidy on service payments contracted before August 6, 1982. The following have access to the subsidy: (1) debtors to Chilean banks or financial companies, whose debt is indexed to the official exchange rate; and (2) debtors with direct obligations abroad, whose obligations were registered with the Central Bank. The preferential rate was fixed at Ch$49.623 per US$1 on August 6, 1982, and is readjusted daily on the basis of the increase in the consumer price index of the previous month. A subsidy equal to the difference between the preferential and the official rate is paid by means of notes w i th a ma tu r i ty of between three and five years, and bearing a 7 percent rate of interest. On December 31, 1983 the preferential exchange rate was Ch$72.78 per US$1. Administration of Control The Executive Committee of the Central Bank is responsible for carrying out currency exchange policy. The Chilean Copper Commission is responsible for the supervision of copper exports and all imports of the copper industry; this supervision has to be exercised in accordance with general rules enacted by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colom- bia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, U ruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central banks of each of the countries concerned, w i th in the framework of the mu l t i la teral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LA1A). Set- tlements w i th the Dominican Republic must be made through clearing accounts established under a reciprocal credit agreement. Settlements with other countries take place in specified convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are free. All imports require a document (known as Informe de Importaciori) issued by the Central Bank, wh ich can be obtained and processed through the intermediary local commercial bank. Payment for visible trade transactions is not permitted unless an Informe de Importation has been issued. Since March 23, 1983 imports are subject to a 120-day m i n im um f inanc ing requirement. Importers may pur- chase spot exchange before the payment date and place a deposit in foreign exchange at the Central Bank in anticipation of payment. Imports on deferred payment terms (cobertura diferida), that is, on credit terms exceeding 360 days, require prior authorization of the credit terms by the Central Bank. V ir tua l ly all imports are subject to a registration tax of up to 3 percent of va lue, wh ich is offset against the applicable import du ty. Since March 23, 1983 imports are subject to a uniform 20 percent tariff rate w i th some exceptions. Among the exceptions are motor vehicles and parts thereof, the tariffs of which are scheduled to decrease gradually to 20 percent by 1986. Temporary tariff increases ranging from 4 percent to 15 percent and averaging 14.7 percent are applied to 25 products, which have been investigated under the regulation for the application of the GATT Code on Subsidies and Countervailing Duties (see section 6 of the Code). Among the products in question, wh ich represent about 4 percent of total imports, are footwear, canned f i sh, cotton and artificial textiles, and cemen t. Specific duties exist on imports of some dairy products, in particular powdered m i lk. Payments for Invisibles Specified allowances exist for certain transactions; central bank authorization is required for others. The authorization is provided upon presentation of appropri- ate documentation. The established limit for tourist travel (in addition to the fares) is the equivalent of US$200 a mon th for travel to Latin America and Caribbean countries and of US$800 a month to other countries. For travel by land, 20 percent of the allowance is provided in the form of foreign exchange and the rest in money orders. Higher amoun ts may be authorized by the Central Bank of Chile, upon presentation of adequate jus t i f ica t ion. 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Residents may purchase up to US$200 a mon th for study abroad, subscriptions to magaz ines, books, and pension paymen ts, subject to presentation of appropriate documents. Insurance activities w i t h in the coun try are limited to Chilean companies or to authorized foreign companies. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities may be freely exported. All foreign exchange proceeds from exports in excess of US$1,000 must be surrendered through commercial banks, wh ich are required to advise immediately the Director of Operations of the Central Bank (the Chilean Copper Commission in the case of copper). Commercial banks are authorized to purchase all foreign exchange proceeds spot from exporters. Exporters are allowed to retain up to 5 percent of export proceeds in a special Foreign Exchange Accoun t, but the cumu l a t ive deposits in any such account du r ing a 12-month period may not exceed US$100,000. Receipts from exports of the large copper mines must be deposited in a special foreign currency account at the Central Bank. Export proceeds subject to surrender requirements must be repatriated w i th in 90 days from the date of sh ipment and surrendered w i th in 10 days from the date of repatriation; for specified goods th is period may be extended. A max imum ma tur i ty of 270 days is fixed for export credits opened prior to sh ipmen t. Sh ipment of the merchandise must take place not later than 240 days from the concession of the export credit. Proceeds from Invisibles In general, foreign exchange proceeds from inv is ib les must be surrendered on ly when required by a legal provision. Such is the case for comm iss ions, proceeds from insurance, and other benef i ts related to foreign trade. There are no s im i lar rules concerning the proceeds from royalties and copyright fees, f am i ly rem i t tances, and the surplus foreign exchange from travel a l loca t ions. Capital Capital inf lows are generally free, but most ou tf lows are restricted. All new foreign borrowing or re f inanc ing of ex is t ing credits by commercial banks requires prior approval by the Central B ank, w i th the exception of the tak ing up of l ines of credit of up to one-year m a t u r i ty w i th foreign correspondents and short-term loans for domestic re lend ing up to a l im it determined m a in ly by a bank's capital and reserves. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of three .different arrangemen ts, depend- ing on the purpose and type of the inves tmen t, as follows: (1) Article 14 of Decree No. 471 of October 17, 1977 stipulates that capital brought in to the coun t ry in the form of foreign exchange (aporte de capital} may be sold freely through authorized banks when the inves tor ( ind iv idual or corporation, na t ional or fore ign) has registered the transaction w i th the Central Bank. There is no m i n im um term on the ma tu r i ty of fore ign borrow ing. 132 Repa t r ia t ion no rma l ly is allowed on ly in accordance w i th the amo r t iza t ion schedu le es tab l ished at the t ime of reg is t ra t ion. Accelerated paymen ts or extensions of payment are subject to special au tho r iza t ion. All fore ign borrow ing under taken after November 10, 1983 w i th average m a tu r i t i es of less than 60 months is sub ject to a 5 percent reserve deposit requ i remen t. (2) A r t ic le 15 of the same decree au thor izes the Central Bank to make exemp t ions to the general rules enacted by it conce rn ing the in f low and ou tf low of cap i tal or c red i ts. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of J u ly 7, 1974 (amended by Decree-Law No. 1748 of March 18, 1977), the Foreign Investment S ta tu te, establishes a reg ime for long-term capital inve s tmen t. Au tho r iza t ion to make a foreign exchange inv e s tm ent in Ch i le is granted by the Foreign Inve s tment Comm i t tee th rough a contract con ta in ing unde r tak ings rega rd ing the pha s ing of the inves tment program that w i ll no rm a l ly not exceed e ight years for m in ing and three years for other projects. Investments of less th an US$5 m i l l i on may be approved by the Execu- t ive Secretary of the Comm i t tee, w i th a few exceptions. There are no l im i t a t i o ns on profit rem i t tances. Capital may be repatriated af ter three years. Foreign investors can opt for a guaran teed 49.5 percent a year total corporation income tax over a period of ten years, or may subject themselves to the tax system applicable to domestic corporations ( c u r r e n t ly 48.5 percent). Any fore ign cred i ts invo lved mu st be on terms authorized by the Cen tral B a n k. Foreign cap i tal that entered Chile prior to the p romu lg a t ion of Decree-Law No. 600 and wh ich did not opt to be subject to that law con t inues to be subject to the regu la t ions p r ev a i l ing on the date of entry. Foreign inves tment in the oil sector is subject to au tho r iza t ion by the Empresa Nac ional de Petroleo (ENA P ). The Cen tral B ank p rov ides exchange guarantee for fore ign borrow ings to f i n a n ce amor t iza t ion paymen ts and for new loans to en te rp r ises operating in the non t radab le sector; a c um u l a t i ve ce i l ing of US$750 m i l- l ion is app l ied on such gua ran tees. Gold Ch i le has issued th ree types of gold co in, wh ich are not legal t end e r. Mone ta ry gold may be traded on ly by au tho r ized houses, but o rd ina ry t ransac t ions in gold be tween p r iva te i n d i v i d u a ls may be free ly under taken. Imports and exports of gold are un res t r ic ted, subject to comp l iance w i th the no rmal fo rma l i t ies for import and export t r an s a c t ion s, i n c l u d i ng reg is t ra t ion w i th the Cen- tral B a n k. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement January 12. F inanc ial in s t rumen ts (notes) issued for p aym ent of the d i f f e r en ce be tween preferen t ial and off i- c ial exchange rates were made t rans fe rab le to "bearer" ( i . e ., nego t iab le w i th th i rd pa r t ies ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution January 18. Notes w i th original ma tu r i t ies of 30 days and 180 days and denom ina ted in U .S. dollars were issued by the Central Bank of Ch i le to f in an c i al institutions in exchange for the foreign currency equ iva- lent of the margin between foreign l i ab i l i t i es under Article IV (and Ag. 1418) and corresponding domestic assets. January 24. Current account fac i l i t ies were ins t i tu ted at the Central Bank for the deposit of balances between liabilities and assets under Ag. 1418 and 1196. February 23. For the purpose of the exchange rate determination, the world in f l a t ion rate, prev ious ly taken to be 1 percent a mon th, was scaled down to 0.4 percent a month. March 23. The exchange rate of the Ch i lean peso started to be adjusted on ly on the basis of domestic in f la t ion. (Previously, it was adjusted on the basis of the domestic rate of in f la t ion du r ing the previous mon th relative to the estimated world rate of i n f l a t i o n .) December 16. The o f f ic ial exchange rate was set at Ch$87.15 = US$1, and it was announced that the rate would be adjusted at da i ly in terva ls on the basis of the domestic rate of in f la t ion du r ing the prev ious mon th, less the world rate of in f la t ion estimated for th is purpose at not more than 0.5 percent a mon th. March 23. A regulation was introduced, requ i r ing commercial banks and exchange houses to trade in foreign exchange at the o f f ic ial rate, in contrast to the previous practice under wh ich they cou ld freely set the ir rates of exchange. However, direct transactions in foreign exchange among private parties could take place at a freely negotiated exchange rate, provided that such transactions were occasional, noncus toma ry, and w i th- out pub l ic i ty. March 23. A 12 percent tax was levied on purchases of foreign exchange for the f in an c ing of imports for which licenses ( fo rma l ly known as Informe de Importa- tion) had been issued before March 23, 1983. Imports and Import Payments March 23. A 120-day m i n im um f in an c ing require- ment for imports was introduced, and a 12 percent tax was levied on purchases of foreign exchange for the f inanc ing of imports for wh ich licenses ( fo rm a l ly known as Informe de Importation) had been issued before March 23, 1983. In add i t ion, the 10 percent u n i f o rm import tar iff was raised to 20 percent under a program of phased reduction to restore the 10 percent level by December 24, 1985. CHILE Payments for Invisibles March 14. The basic travel allowance was reduced from US$300 to US$200 a trip for trips to North Amer ican and Caribbean countries, and from US$1,200 to US$800 a tr ip for trips to other countries. For travel by land, 20 percent of the allowance was required to be delivered in foreign exchange and the rest in money orders. In add i t ion, central bank authorization was made obligatory for a numb er of service payments, payments of other inv i s ib le transactions, and transfer of profits and d iv idend s, amortization and interest payments on foreign debt were made subject to prior au thor iza t ion by the Central B a n k, and the exchange allowance for purchase of noncommerc ial drugs was discontinued. Exports and Export Proceeds January 17. The proportion of export proceeds wh ich exporters could deposit in special Foreign Exchange Accounts was reduced from 10 percent to 5 percent, and a l im it of US$100,000 du r ing any 12-month period was imposed on deposits of foreign exchange in such accounts. March 23. The m a x im um period for repatriation of export proceeds was reduced from 150 days to 90 days. Capital January 13. The necessary deposit under the reserve requ irement for capital inf lows was extended to medium- term credits f in an c ing imports of capital goods, w i th ma tu r i ty of less than 72 mon ths, w i th the exception of loans f inanc ing imports of ships, airplanes, magazines, and books. February 1. W i th effect from Janua ry 31, 1983, a 90-day mora tor ium was placed on amortization pay- ments on loans from foreign f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions con- tracted before J anu a ry 31, 1983 and not guaranteed by foreign o f f ic ial agencies. (The moratorium was subse- quen t ly renewed and extended to maturities fa l l ing due after Apr il 30, J u ly 31, and October 31 .) July 15. The Central Bank introduced an exchange guarantee for foreign borrowings to refinance amortiza- t ion paymen ts and for new loans to enterprises operating in the non tradab le sector, subject to a cumu la t ive ceiling of US$750 m i l l i on on all such guarantees. November 10. The coverage of the 5 percent reserve requ i rement on cap i tal inf lows was l im i ted to loans w i th an average m a t u r i ty of 60 mon ths. Gold March 23. A regu la t ion was introduced, l im i t ing trade in monetary gold to authorized houses. July 7. Transactions in gold between private i n d i v i d u- als were l ibe ra l ized. 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of China is the Renminbi and its un it is the yuan. The exchange rate of the renminbi is adjusted in accordance w i th movements in the value of a basket of internationally traded currencies, weighted with reference to their importance in China's external transactions and the trends in their relative values. The yuan -U .S. dollar rate is calculated directly from the value of the basket, while rates for 21 other currencies1 are determined from the cross rates. The exchange rate is published daily by the State Administration of Exchange Control; on December 31, 1983 the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were Y 1.9759 and Y 1.9859, respectively, per US$1. Published rates for currencies other than those that are important in China's international transactions are changed whenever the calculated rate diverges from the previously published rate by 1 percent; for the important currencies, such as the U .S. dollar and the Japanese yen, a smaller margin of 0.5 percent is applied. All spot transactions are performed at this official exchange rate. All national enterprises engaged in foreign trade are required to buy foreign exchange from the Bank of Ch ina at an internal settlement rate of Y 2.8 per US$1. This rate is formed by adding to the official rate an "equaliza- tion price" and applies to all national enterprises, corporations, and jo int ventures engaged in trade, as well as to receipts and expenditures in foreign exchange for trade-related transactions in invisibles such as shipping and insurance. The official rate remains in effect for all other transactions in invisibles ( inc lud ing capital pay- ments for joint ventures and other enterprises w i th nonresident capital), and for all settlements w i th nonresi- dents that are denominated in renm inb i. An experimental trading system for foreign exchange has been established by the Bank of China in a few areas, such as Beijing, Guangdong, Hefei, Shangha i, and Tianjin. National enterprises holding foreign exchange earned through the system of retention quotas are permitted to sell this foreign exchange to other national enterprises that have a quota for spending foreign exchange. The Bank of China acts as a broker and levies a commission of 0.1 percent on both sides of the transaction. The Bank of China does not operate in th is trading system on its own account or provide foreign exchange or take up positions in foreign exchange. Most transactions are in U .S. dollars, but Hong Kong dollars and pounds sterling are also traded. All transactions in 'Aus t ra l ian dollars, Austrian sch i l l ings, Belgian f rancs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, F inn ish ma rkkaa, French francs, Ghanaian cedis, Hong Kong dollars, Iranian r ia ls, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands gu i lders, Norwegian kronor, Pakistan rupees, pounds sterling, Sierra Leonean leones, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 134 this market are spot transactions and are conducted at the internal settlement rate of Y 2.8 per US$1. Forward exchange rates are pub l ished for 15 curren- c ies .2 China does not apply a system of forward premiums and discounts but instead uses the spot rate p lus a forward charge. Forward transactions are only permitted in connection with an underlying trade transac- t ion. When banks sell renm inbi forward, a charge is levied; when they b u y, no charge is levied except for the Japanese yen and the Swiss franc. Rates are given for one to six months; transactions can be renewed for a fur ther six months, but for not longer than one year. Forward charges reflect interest rates and trends in international markets in the currencies concerned. Administration of Control The People's Bank of China exercises central bank func t ion and control over foreign exchange; and the State Adm in is tra t ion of Exchange Control, as a government adm in is tra t ion under the leadership of the People's Bank of Ch ina, is responsible for imp lemen t ing the exchange regulations and con tro l l ing all foreign exchange transac- tions in accordance w i th state policy. There are sub- bureaus in the provinces, in ma in mun ic ipa l i t ies, autono- mous regions, and special economic zones. Other banks and f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, inc lud ing affiliates of nonresi- dent banks, may handle designated transactions w i th the approval of the SAEC. The China International Trust and Inves tment Corporation (CITIC) is authorized to conduct transactions connected w i th investments of foreign capital in Ch ina. Ind iv idua ls and ins t i tu t ions may hold foreign exchange but may not deal in it or conduct arbitrage operations. Foreign exchange transactions are generally made in accordance w i th a foreign exchange plan. Those parts of the foreign exchange plan dealing w i th foreign trade, foreign loans, and Ch ina 's external assistance program are prepared by the M in is t ry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade; the foreign exchange budgets of other government departments are prepared by the Ministry of Finance. The SAEC draws up the section of the plan covering local and provincial nontrade transac- tions, receipts from overseas Chinese, and individual receipts. The overall foreign exchange plan is coor- dinated and balanced by the SAEC, and after it has been reviewed and reconciled w i th other plans by the State Planning Commission, it is submitted to the State Council for approval. Following approval, the plan is sent back to the various localities and ministries for 2Aus t r ian sch i l l ings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian do l lars, Dan- ish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Hong Kong dollars, Ital- ian lire, Japanese y en, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, Norwegian kroner, pounds s te r l ing, Swed ish kronor, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution implementation. The Bank of China is responsible for supervising the implementation of the foreign exchange plan. The foreign exchange plan, in principle, covers all transactions, including those with countries with which China maintains bilateral payments agreements. The annual plan is divided into quarterly plans, and at the end of each quarter, the State Planning Commission reviews the implementation of the plan and determines whether corrections are necessary. That part of the foreign exchange plan dealing with trade is broken down by commodity. Unexpected events, such as changes in foreign trade prices, might necessitate a revision of the plan. Special exchange control regulations apply to special economic zones and border regions. Prescription of Currency Trade transactions with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, and the U .S .S .R. are expressed in Swiss francs, and with Cuba in pounds sterling at the official exchange rate and settled through bilateral payments arrangements. In normal circumstances, imbalances emerging toward the end of each year are covered by increased deliveries of goods. Noncommercial transac- tions are settled on a current basis in convertible currencies, except for part of such transactions with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and Romania, and all the transactions with Cuba, which pass through the clearing account. Payments to and from countries with which China has bilateral payments agreements3 are made in currencies and in accordance with the proce- dures set forth in those agreements. In other cases, where there are no specific regulations prescribing the curren- cies to be used in transactions, they are determined by bilateral contract. Bilateral trade and payments agree- ments are of two kinds: Type A agreements are designed to ensure balanced trade and include, for each good itemized, quantitative commodity lists or foreign ex- change quota lists for those commodities which cannot be expressed in quantitative terms; these lists are binding on both parties. Most arrangements are of this type. Type B agreements (those with the Islamic Republic of Iran and Sierra Leone) provide such binding itemized lists only for the principal goods traded by the parties and also include nonbinding lists of secondary goods. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents4 in China for a short period may open nonresident accounts with the Bank of China. Joint 3China maintains operative bilateral payments agreements w i th the following Fund members: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Egypt, Hungary, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Pakistan, Romania, and Sierra Leone. It also maintains agreements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, and the U .S .S .R. 4Nonresidents include overseas Chinese and residents of foreign countries, Hong Kong, and Macao. Foreign embassies are also included. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA ventures may also open foreign exchange accounts and use them to make payments abroad. With the permission of the Bank of China, foreign banks may hold convert- ible renminbi accounts in connection with commercial or noncommercial transactions. Renminbi may be pur- chased for such an account only on presentation of documentary evidence that the money will be used in the designated transaction. The Bank of China may check any use made of renminbi in such accounts. Imports and Exports All trade, both direct and indirect, with Israel, the Republic of Korea, and South Africa is prohibited. The primary responsibility for the conduct of trade rests with the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade, which issues the licenses required for all import and export transactions. Most foreign trade is conducted by state foreign trade corporations under the direct leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade. Other entities may conduct foreign trade only if so authorized by a license issued by the Ministry. The Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade supervises and coordinates the foreign trade activities of entities that are not under its direct jurisdiction. The branches of foreign trade corporations in prov- inces, cities, and autonomous regions are under the dual leadership of the local authorities and the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade. Localities and ministries other than the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade may also, after registration, partici- pate directly in foreign trade. Local foreign trade corporations have been established in a number of provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions. Ministries have also been permitted to establish foreign trade corporations. All enterprises, except registered state-owned for- eign trade corporations, need a license from the local foreign trade bureau before they can trade or hold foreign exchange. Part of the proceeds of some exports may be retained in a foreign exchange deposit or foreign ex- change quota account with the Bank of China. Such foreign exchange may be sold to other authorized enterprises through the experimental trading system established by the Bank of China. All other foreign exchange earnings from exports must be repatriated and surrendered to the Bank of China, unless a specific exception is granted by the SAEC. Before using their holdings of foreign exchange, enterprises other than the foreign trade corporations must seek the approval of the SAEC. The Bank of China provides foreign exchange for imports on the basis of import licenses and approval by the SAEC. Enterprises must sell their foreign ex- change earnings from invisibles to the Bank of China, except for the portion they may retain in accordance with specific regulations. Foreign trade is conducted on the basis of the annual foreign trade plan. This plan is drawn up by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade in conjunction 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA w i th the State P lann ing Commission. The former sends directives on the preparation of the plan to all foreign trade corporations and to the foreign trade bureaus in the provinces, mun ic ipa l i t ies, and autonomous regions; these, in tu rn, meet w i th other interested entities and prepare lists of needed imports and goods available for export. The plans prepared at the local level are coordinated and balanced by the M in is t ry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade and the State P l ann ing Commission at national foreign trade p l ann ing confer- ences. The State Council grants f inal approval to the foreign trade plan. Goods which can be produced domestically, or for wh ich adequate domestic subs t i tu tes are ava i lab le, are not included in the import p lan. Priority is given in the import plan to goods that cannot be produced domes- tically in adequate quantities and those that are urgently needed by the State, especially for key projects. In the case of some goods that are not produced in adequate quan t i t ies but for wh ich a good foreign market exists, part of the production may be allocated to export. The import of goods wh ich have been exported from China requires special authorization. The import and export of weapons, ammun i t ion and explosives, radio receivers and transmitters, Chinese currency, manu- scripts, printed and recorded ma ter ia ls, and f i lms that are deemed to be detrimental to Chinese po l i t ica l, economic, cu l tura l, and moral interests are proh ib i ted. In add i t ion, the import of poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased an ima l s, and plants is prohibited, as is the export of valuable cu l tural relics and rare books, rare an ima ls and p lan ts, and precious metals and artifacts made from these metals. Exports of specified mach ine tools require a license from the State Adm in is tra t ion for the Inspection of Import and Export Commodities, as a means of qua l i ty control. The customs regulations in force are the Provisional Customs Law of the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina and the Customs Import and Export Tariff of the People's Republic of Ch ina. Except for imports in to Tibet, Ch ina applies a two-column import tariff with a general rate and a m in imum rate. The m i n im um rate is applied to goods from those countries w i th wh ich Ch ina has concluded reciprocal commercial treaties.5 The general 5These countries are as fo l lows (classified by geographical areas): (1) Africa: Ben in, B u r u n d i, Cameroon, Central A f r ican R e p u b l i c, Chad, Congo, Egypt, Equatorial Gu in e a, E th iop ia, Gabon, The Gamb ia, Ghana, Gu inea, Kenya, Liberia, L ibyan Arab J am ah i r iy a, Madagascar, Ma l i, M a u r i t a n i a, Morocco, N iger, N ige r ia, Rw a n d a, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Tanzan ia, Togo, Tun is ia, Zaire, Zamb ia, and Zimbabwe. (2) Americas: A rgen t ina, B raz i l, Canada, Ch i le, Cuba, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, and United States. (3) Asia: Bangladesh, Bu rma, Cyprus, Iraq, Japan, Jordan, Demo- cratic Kampuchea, Democratic People's R epub l ic of Korea, Lebanon, Mongolia, Nepa l, Oman, Pakistan, Ph i l ipp ine s, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syrian Arab Repub l ic, Tha i land, Turkey, V iet N am, Yemen Arab Repub l ic, and People's Democratic Repub l ic of Yemen. (4) Europe: A lb an i a, Aus tr ia, B e lg ium, Denma rk, F i n l a n d, France, German Democratic Repub l ic, Federal Repub l ic of G e rm any, Greece, Ire land, I t a ly, Luxembou rg, Ne the r land s, Norway, Por tuga l, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Sw i tze r land, U .S .S .R ., Un i ted K ingdom, and Yugos lav ia. (5) Oceania: Aus t ra l ia and New Zea land. 136 rate applies to all other countries. Import duties are generally levied on the c . i . f. value of goods. Under the general t a r i ff du t iab le imports are subject to one of 24 rates rang ing from 7.5 percent to 250 percent, wh i le those under the m i n im um ta r i ff are subject to one of 20 rates rang ing from 5 percent to 150 percent. Imports in to Tibet from abroad are subject to a separate system of customs du t ies established by the Tibetan People's Governmen t. The ta r i f f, however, only applies to goods imported d irec t ly in to Tibet for use there. It does not app ly to imports of other provinces, mun i c ip a l i t i e s, and autonomous regions through Tibet, or to imports through Tibet by mail or brought in as part of the luggage carried by travelers; such imports are subject to the regu lar Chinese ta r i f f. In add i t ion to customs du t ie s, the Consolidated Indus- t r ial and Commerc ial Tax (a turnover tax that is applied also to other commodities) is levied on imports in accordance w i th the l ist contained in the Draft Regula- t ions of the Consolidated Indu s t r ial and Commercial Tax of the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina. Raw materials imported for fu r th er processing are exempted from both cus toms du t i es and commercial taxes, provided that the products are all exported w i t h in a specified period. Export du t ies are levied on exports of 34 d i f fe rent commodities. Localities and enterprises may retain part of foreign exchange earned from export ( in c lud ing net foreign exchange ea rn ings in a compensation trade), in accor- dance w i th state regu la t ions. The percentage of export earnings that can be retained varies w i th the enterprise. Special economic zones have been set up in Shan tou, Shenzhen, X i am en, and Zhuha i. Foreigners and, in particular, overseas Chinese are permitted to open factories in these zones for m anu f a c tu r ing products for export marke ts. Imports in to such zones intended for processing and re-export are exempt from import duties and in some cases the consolidated commercial and indus t r ial tax. Profits generated in the zones are taxed at 15 percent, as opposed to 33 percent for jo int ventures w i t h in Ch ina. Invisibles Foreign exchange remitted from abroad or from the Hong Kong and Macao regions to Chinese residents mu st be surrendered to the Bank of Ch ina, except for the 10 percent wh ich may be retained when the remitted amount is equ iva lent to Y 3,000 or more. For residents of Ch ina repatriating foreign exchange held abroad or in the Hong Kong and Macao regions before October 1, 1949, or inher i ted af ter that date, up to 30 percent of such inwa rd remittances may be retained. S im i lar ly, up to 30 percent of foreign exchange owned by imm igran ts or r e tu rn ing Chinese before becoming residents may be re ta ined, provided app l ica t ion is made w i th in two mon ths fo l low ing entry in to Ch ina. Such retained for- eign exchange may be sold to the Bank of China or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution remitted out of China through the Bank of China, or taken out of China against certification by the Bank of China. All foreign exchange earned by Chinese residents when working abroad, or in Hong Kong or Macao, or earned from publication fees, copyright fees, awards, subsidies, honoraria, or other premiums, must be repatri- ated and may not be deposited abroad; but individuals may retain all or part of such earnings according to prevailing regulations. All the surrendered portion of foreign exchange remittances is accorded the privileged treatment given to remittances by overseas Chinese. Foreign staff members and employees of foreign joint ventures, as well as those from the Hong Kong and Macao regions,6 may remit abroad all the net amount of salaries and other income earned in China, after payment of taxes and deduction of their living expenses in China. Profits of joint ventures may be remitted after taxation, in accordance with foreign exchange regulations; such remittances are subject to the approval of the local branch of the Bank of China and should be paid through the foreign exchange account of the joint venture. Remitted profits are subject to an additional tax of 10 percent. If a Chinese resident wishes to spend money on travel abroad, receive his pension abroad, or remit money abroad, he must apply to the local SAEC bureau for approval. Such factors as the ind iv idua l's normal income and expenditure are examined to determine if approval is to be granted for remittances. In cases of serious illness, death, or injury affecting a Chinese resident's parents, spouse, or children outside China, he may be allocated the necessary foreign exchange on presentation of documentary verification. If permission is granted to travel abroad, a Chinese resident is normally allowed to take a reasonable amount of foreign exchange to cover expenses for transport and subsistence; any surplus must be repatriated and surrendered to the Bank of China. There is no tax on travel. A Chinese resident who retires and emigrates is normally permitted to receive his pension abroad, but he is not normally permitted to remit the proceeds from any assets he may sell in China. Foreign exchange remitted or brought in by nonresi- dents may be converted into either Chinese currency or foreign exchange certificates denominated in yuan. Foreign exchange certificates can be used solely by nonresidents in hotels, restaurants, and shops serving nonresidents, for purchasing airline tickets and through train or ship fares to Hong Kong and Macao, and for international telecommunications charges and parcel post charges. Special regulations apply in Guangdong province. Persons entering China must declare their holdings of foreign currency and may take out of China any unused foreign currency on presentation of the import declaration form issued by the customs. The import and export of Chinese bank notes are prohibited. 6Including those employed by enterprises w i th overseas and foreign Chinese capital. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Foreign exchange certificates may be imported, but export is subject to the provision of documentation showing that they have been acquired legitimately. Chinese residents must show their authorization to export foreign currency at the border. Joint ventures are required to insure themselves with Chinese insurance companies. Capital All un i ts w ish ing to borrow abroad must prepare a plan showing the kinds of imports for which the loan is intended. Such plans must indicate the total amount of foreign exchange needed, and how much of this will be earned and how much borrowed from abroad. All such plans are submitted to the State Planning Commission, wh ich reviews them in cooperation with SAEC and the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade. Loans for vital projects or projects which have a rapid rate of return are given priority approval. If the imports are for new construction, the plans are also reviewed by the State Economic Commission. Loans from international financial institutions and foreign governments require the sanction of the State P lann ing Commission and the approval of the State Council. Loans from international development agencies are generally the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance or of the China Investment Bank (an organiza- tion under the direction of the Ministry), while inter- governmental loans are the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade. Government departments, local governments, and enterprises are usua l ly required to borrow through the Bank of China or with its guarantee, rather than borrowing directly abroad themselves. There is an annual limit on such borrowing set by the State Planning Commission. Foreign borrow- ing in the form of deferred payments requires the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade. Resident organizations may not issue securi- ties for foreign exchange unless approved by the State Council. All foreign direct investment projects are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade. The policy w i th respect to foreign capital is designed both to make up the insufficiency of domestic capital and to facilitate the introduction of modern technology and management. All foreign ex- change earned by jo int ventures and other enterprises involving nonresident capital must be deposited with the Bank of China or another bank approved by the SAEC; transfers of capital require SAEC approval. Such enter- prises involved in the exploitation of offshore petroleum reserves may also hold foreign exchange abroad or in Hong Kong or Macao. When a joint venture is wound up, the net claims belonging to the foreign investor may be remitted w i th SAEC approval through the foreign exchange account of the joint venture. Alternatively, the foreign investor may apply for repayment of his paid-in capital. 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Profits of jo int ventures, w i th the exception of f irms in special economic zones and those exploiting pe tro leum, natural gas, and other resources, are subject to tax at 33 percent (30 percent basic rate plus a 10 percent surcharge on the assessed tax). When profits are rein- vested in Ch ina, 40 percent of the tax paid is eligible for rebate after five years, provided that the jo int venture remains in operation at that t ime. As mentioned above, remitted profits are subject to an add i t ional tax of 10 percent. A jo int venture scheduled to operate for ten years or more may be exempted from incorie tax in the first two years of operation and be allowed a 50 percent reduction for the next three years. Jo int ventures in low- profit operations, such as farm ing and forestry, or located in economically underdeveloped ou t ly ing areas may be allowed a fur ther 15-30 percent reduction in income tax for the fo l low ing ten years. A par t ic ipant in a jo int venture wh ich reinvests its share of profit in Ch ina for a period of not less than five years may obtain a refund of 40 percent of the tax paid on the reinvested amoun t. Some jo int ventures established before the passing of tax regulations in August 1980 are subject to taxes at different rates. Foreign companies, enterprises, and other economic organizations, wh ich have establish- ments in Ch ina engaged in independent business opera- t ion, or cooperative produc t ion, or joint business opera- tion w i th Chinese enterprises are subject to tax on the ir net income. There are five levels of tax rates, rang ing from the lowest of 20 percent for the first Y 250,000 of profits to the highest of 40 percent when profits exceed Y 1 m i l l ion. In addition, a local income tax of 10 percent of the same taxable income shall be levied. Income from interest on deposits of foreign banks in Ch ina's state banks and on loans given at a normal interest rate by foreign banks to China's state banks is s im i lar ly subject to income tax. Foreign banks originating from countries in wh ich income from interest on deposits and loans of Ch ina's state banks is exempted from income tax are exempt from this Chinese income tax. For interest income or leasing fees (less than the value of equ ipmen t) earned by foreign businessmen under credit agreements, trade agreements, and leasing agreements signed by them w i th Chinese companies and enterprises du r ing the period 1983-85, income tax is to be levied at the reduced rate of 10 percent (half of the normal rate) dur ing the va l id i ty of the aforesaid agreements, and interest earn- ings from export credits are entitled to income tax exemption. For fees collected by foreign bus inessmen for the use of special technology provided by them in such fields as agr icu l ture, an imal husband ry, research, energy, commun ica t ions, transport, env ironmen tal pro- tection, and the development of important techn iques, income tax is to be levied at the reduced rate of 10 percent (half of the normal rate) and fees from the provision of advanced technology at favorable terms are entitled to income tax exemption. Foreign investment by Chinese enterprises is subject to approval; profits thereby earned must be sold to the Bank of Ch ina, except for a portion wh ich may be 138 retained locally as a working balance. Chinese diplo- matic and commercial organizations abroad and under- takings abroad and in Hong Kong and Macao are required to draw up annual foreign exchange plans. Gold The People's Bank of Ch ina buys and sells gold and has central control over dealings in gold and silver. Sales of gold and silver are restricted to pharmaceutical, indus t r ia l, and other approved uses. Private persons may hold gold but may not trade or deal in it. The amount of gold, gold products, silver, and silver products that may be imported is un l im i t ed but must be declared on entry. When expor t ing gold or silver, the exporter must present an import document from the customs or a People's Bank of Ch ina export perm i t. Nonresidents may buy gold and s i lver and gold and silver products at special stores but must present the invoice when exporting them. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement February 1. The State Adm in is tra t ion of Exchange Control ceased to pub l ish rates for the Tanzanian s h i l l i n g. Administration of Control January I. In a mod if ica t ion of regulations governing foreign exchange accounts of residents, authorization was granted for deposits to be made in Japanese yen, U .S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, pounds sterling, and deutsche ma rk. February 1. The People's Bank of China issued new regulations on the operation of foreign bank branches in Ch ina. March 5. The Na t ional People's Congress approved a decision to allow the M in is t ry of Foreign Economic Re la t ions and Trade to exercise the exam in ing and approving powers of the former Foreign Investment Control Commission. Prescription of Currency June 29. In imp lemen ta t ion of an agreement dated March 16, 1982, the b i la teral payments agreement w i th Syria was te rm ina ted. Imports and Exports January 19. Following the imposition by the United States of restrictions on imports of textiles from China, the latter announced that it would stop imports of cotton, syn the t ic fibers, and soybeans from the United States and wou ld reduce its p lanned imports of U.S. agricul- tu ral products. May 16. The State Counc il gave more autonomy in external economic relations to the Shanghai munici- pa l i ty. August 19. The second Textile Trade Agreement between Ch ina and the Un i ted States was concluded. September 6. Ch ina l i f ted the ban introduced on Janua ry 19, 1983 on specified imports from the United States. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution September- 14. The Customs Administration ex- empted raw materials imported for further processing from customs duties and commercial taxes, provided that the end-products were all exported within a specified period. September 22. Under a decision of the Ministry of the Machine Building Industry and the State Administration for the Inspection of Import and Export Commodities, quality control licenses were introduced for exports of certain machine tools. December 1. The permissible value of duty-free imports as part of the luggage of overseas Chinese visiting China was increased; changes were made in the regulations affecting visitors from Hong Kong and Macao. December 15. China became a signatory to the GATT Multifiber Agreement. Invisibles February 7. The State Administration of Exchange Control announced that resident foreign workers and employees, including residents from Hong Kong and Macao, could remit abroad up to 100 percent (previously 50 percent) net earnings after taxes and deduction of their living expenses in China. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA September 6. An agreement between China and Japan came into effect, aimed at the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of evasion of income taxes. Capital January I. The tax rate on income earned by foreign firms from interest on loans in respect of contracts signed during the period 1983-85 was reduced by 50 percent; and a similar reduction was extended to income earned from agriculture, energy development, communications and transport, education, and scientific research. August 1. New rules (approved by the State Council on Ju ly 19, 1983) were introduced for the implementa- tion of exchange controls in respect of enterprises with foreign and overseas Chinese capital and joint ventures. September 2. The Standing Committee of the Na- tional People's Congress approved certain changes in the income tax law for joint ventures. September 20. The State Council issued a body of regulations for the implementation of the law on joint ventures involving Chinese and foreign capital. Gold June 15. The State Council issued new regulations on holdings of, and transactions in, gold and silver. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Colombia is the Colombian Peso. The authorities of Colombia follow a policy of ad jus t ing the peso in small amounts at relatively short intervals, taking into account (1) the movements of prices in Colombia relative to those in its major trading partners; (2) the level of Colombia's foreign exchange reserves; and (3) Colombia's overall balance of payments perfor- mance. Exchange surrender and foreign payments are generally effected through the med ium of exchange certificates, which are traded in the official market at the official rate and in the stock exchange at varying rates of discount. In the case of export proceeds, exporters have the option of either immediate conversion or acquisition of exchange certificates w i th a ma tu r i ty of 90 days. On December 31, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates in the official market for the U .S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, were Col$88.77 and Col$89.12, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also o f f ic ia l ly quoted, w i th daily quota- tions based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic (the Central Bank) or authorized banks. There are other effective exchange rates wh ich result from (1) a 6.5 percent tax on coffee export proceeds; (2) tax credit certificates granted at three d ifferent percentage rates for most export proceeds; (3) the imposition of remittance tax at two d ifferent rates on certain service payments; and (4) an advance deposit of Col$50 per US$1 on the purchase of foreign exchange for travel purposes. The peso equ iva lent of the Govern- ment's exchange receipts from the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury's Special Exchange Account at an accounting rate applied by the Bank of the Repub l ic; the Government purchases exchange for all pub l ic debt payments and other expenditures included in the na t ional budget at the same exchange rate. The Bank of the Repub l ic stands ready to sell exchange warrants (titulos canjeables por certiflcados de cambio, titulos de divisas, or certiflcados de futuro) to government enterprises in the oil sector, against payment in pesos at the certificate market selling rate on the date of issue. These warrants, wh ich are expressed in U .S. dollars and have a ma tu r i ty of three or six months that may be extended up to one year, are negotiable and may also be exchanged for exchange certificates, provided that the holder presents an exchange license. W i th in their period of va l id i ty, warrants may also be sold to the Bank of the Republic for pesos, at the certificate 'Aus t r ian sch i l l ings, Belgian f r a n c s, Canad ian dollars, Dan ish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands gu i lders, pounds s te r l ing, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and Venezue lan bolivares. 140 market buy ing rate on the date of repurchase. Warrants bear interest at 8 percent a year. Warrants held un t il after 12 months cease to bear interest. Warrants held longer than 24 mon ths cannot be converted into exchange certificates but may be resold to the Bank at the certificate market rate on the last day of the twenty- fourth mon th. Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior registration at the Colombian In s t i tu te of Foreign Trade (INCOMEX). Ex- change for payments must be purchased through the Bank of the Repub l ic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic; however, payments for specified current transactions, when made through credit ins t i tu t ions, do not require prior exchange licenses but must be subm i t ted to the Bank of the Republic for ex post au then t ica t ion. The Monetary Board is authorized periodically to draw up a foreign exchange budget but has not exercised that power in recent years. It can also establish priorities w i th in that budget for the delivery of exchange, after setting aside the amounts necessary to cover the obligations of the Bank of the Republic and to service the external debt of the pub l ic agencies and the Na t ional Federation of Coffee Growers. Overall import and export policy is determined by the Foreign Trade Council (FTC). INCOMEX, through its Import Board, controls those imports that are subject to prior licensing. The Na t ional Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives concerning direct investment in Colom- bia to the Exchange Office and the National Planning Department. The Exchange Office keeps an accounting record both of foreign investment in Colombia and of debts abroad and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the transfer of profits, dividends, commissions, and royalties for trademarks, patents, etc. The sale of proceeds from certain current invisibles is also subject to prior registration w i th the Exchange Office. The Superintendency of Exchange Control, wh ich is an autonomous agency reporting to the Presi- dency of the Repub l ic, enforces the control and supervi- sion over exchange transactions and is responsible for app ly ing penalties for any violation of the exchange regulations. Prescription of Currency The Monetary Board establishes the list of currencies wh ich it accepts for exchange surrender and provides for import payments. Payments and receipts are normally effected in U .S. dollars, but importers and exporters are also free to use quoted currencies (see footnote 1). Settlements for commercial transactions w i th countries w i th wh ich Colombia has bilateral payments or recip- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution rocal credit agreements2 must be made through special accounts in accordance w i th the provisions of the particular bilateral payments agreement. Settlements between Colombia and A rgen t ina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made th rough ac- counts maintained w i th in the framework of the mu l t i l a t- eral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). There are also reciprocal credit agreements with Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Spain, and member countries of the Central Ame r ican Common Market (CACM). Nonresident Accounts Credit institutions are authorized to receive short-term deposits in foreign currency from physical or ju r id ical persons not resident in Colombia; these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any foreign currency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colombian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Repub l ic. Before releasing the accounts of nonresidents, banks must obtain authorization from the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments There is no prohibited import l is t. Imports are classified either as goods whose import is subject to prior licensing by INCOMEX or as goods that may be imported freely w i thout license although subject to registration. In the latter category, there is a global free list applicable to all countries, a National List applicable on ly to member countries of the LAI A, and special lists applicable on ly to less developed member countries of the LAIA and to members of the Andean Pact. A d is t inc t ion is drawn between reimbursable and nonre imbursab le imports. The term reimbursable imports covers imports that invo lve purchase of official foreign exchange, in c lud ing imports of machinery and equ ipmen t, w i th f inanc ing by interna- tional credit ins t i tu t ions. Nonre imbursab le imports con- sist mainly of aid imports under grants and commodities constituting part of a direct investment. Imports are subject to m in imum payment terms as follows: 9 mon ths for raw materials and consumer goods, 36 months for capital goods imports not effected under a global license, and 60 mon ths for imports through the global license system. All import registrations by pub l ic sector agen- cies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whe ther local substitutes are available. Import licenses for certain items are not normally issued; these include arms and habit-forming drugs, certain foods tu f fs, certain textiles and clothing, and jewelry. Both import licenses and registrations are valid for n ine mon ths, except for imports of agricultural and livestock products, for wh ich the validity period is three mon ths. Import licenses can be extended for successive three-month periods, whereas registrations of free imports can be extended on ly once for up to three months. 2Colombia ma in ta ins bilateral paymen ts agreements w i th Bu lg a r i a, Hungary, Poland, and Roman ia. COLOMBIA Prior registration of the import transaction at INCOMEX is required for all imports other than those classified as "minor imports" or shipments w i th an f .o.b. value of less than US$500. The charge for import registration is Col$ 1,500. In order to obtain exchange licenses for imports of consumer goods on ly, advance import pay- ments deposits (depositos previo a la nationalization de mercancias) of 10 percent of the registered amount must be made in Colombian currency w i th an authorized bank before customs clearance. Importers then receive nonne- go t iab le, interest-free deposit certificates for foreign payments (titulos de deposito para pages al exterior) denom ina ted in foreign currency and valid for 36 mon ths. These may be used to purchase foreign exchange for partial payment of the import transaction (w i th in any m ax imum payment terms specified by the Monetary Board for the type of transaction concerned). Unused certificates may be sold to the Bank of the Repub l ic at the original exchange rate. The fo l low ing are exempt from advance import payments deposits: imports brought into Colombia under special import-export arrangements (the Vallejo Plan); foods tu f fs for direct consumption; direct imports for the m i l i ta ry and the police; imports from Eastern Europe; imports from countries w i th wh ich reciprocal credit arrangements are in force (LAIA countries, CACM countries, the Dom in ican Repub l ic, Cuba, and Spain); imports f inanced w i th loans from international organiza- tions; books, newspapers, and magazines; and gasoline. There is also an advance exchange license deposit (consignation) wh ich has to be lodged, at the official rate for exchange certificates, prior to applying for an exchange license. The rate of deposit is 35 percent of the va lue of the exchange license, inc lud ing an advance deposit of 10 percent. If the transaction is also subject to the advance import payment deposit of 10 percent, this is counted as part of the deposit for the advance exchange license. Imports financed w i th special credit lines from the Bank of the Repub l ic or w i th funds from the national budge t, and imports of medicines, books, and subscrip- t ions to technical pub l ica t ions are exempt from advance import paymen ts deposits. The Department of Devel- opment Credit in the Bank of the Republic can approve payment terms of up to seven years in special cases. Import du t ies are calculated at the "Ministry of Finance exchange rate" (the average selling rate for exchange certificates for the previous mon th, as deter- m ined by the M in is try of Finance). In addition to customs du t ies, there is an ad valorem tax on imports equal to 5 percent of the c . i . f. va lue, the proceeds of which go to the Export Promotion Fund. Exempt from th is tax are temporary imports, imports by public entities; goods of LAIA origin; imports under the Vallejo Plan; diplomatic, consular, and similar imports; gifts; and imports destined for the free port of San Andres y Providencia or effected through the port of Leticia. With the above exemptions, imports are also subject to a tax of 1.5 percent of the c . i . f. va lue, the proceeds of which accrue to the ordinary budget of the National Govern- 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA ment. All imports (except newsprint) are subject to a stamp tax of 1 percent of the f.o.b. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the exchange certificate rate. To obtain exchange licenses for freight payments, a freight company mus t, either directly or through agents in Colombia, lodge a deposit amounting to 35 percent of payment value; in add i t ion, a deposit of 10 percent of the value of the exchange license must be lodged in respect of imports. A max imum term of six months applies for payment of freight and transportation related to imports. The deposit requirement on freight payments for imports can be counted as part of the advance exchange license deposit. Most payments for invisibles are subject to exchange licenses; however, the Bank of the Repub l ic may make payments abroad on behalf of credit ins t i tu t ions w i thout prior exchange license. Commercial banks in cities where Exchange Offices are located may sell exchange directly for the purpose of foreign travel. Banks may also transfer without prior approval payments for certain other current invisibles, including freight payments, banking commissions, interest on suppliers' credit, medical expenses, support of technical staff abroad, the monthly allowances of students s tudy ing abroad w i th government support, and for the service on registered foreign loans taken up by the private sector. Foreign exchange purchases for foreign travel are l im i ted to the equivalent of US$125 a day, up to US$2,500 a year for those under 12 years of age, US$250 a day, up to US$5,000 a year an adu l t, and up to US$300 a day, up to US$20,000 a year for "special" travelers, defined as those traveling for reasons that are of particular use- fulness in the economic and social development of the country.3 There are also no limits on outward remit- tances for bona fide cases of student allowances and family maintenance. The transfer of profits accruing tp foreign investors is limited to 20 percent of the invest- ment a year. An additional 7 percent may be reinvested. Profits in excess of 20 percent may be capitalized as direct investment, whenever at least 50 percent of the investment is in the form of bonds issued by the Industrial Promotion Ins t i tu te. These limitations do not hold for multinational enterprises in which at least 80 percent of the capital is held by investors in the countries of the Andean Pact; in such cases, profits can be reinvested and transferred freely. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period not exceeding three months may, on leaving the coun try, purchase foreign currency on presentation of their passports or credit cards. A remittance tax of 12 percent is applicable 3Under Monetary Board Reso lu t ion No. 36, e f fec t ive Ap r il 6, 1983, the l im i ts on foreign exchange for foreign travel were lowered to US$125 a day up to a m ax imum of US$2,500 a year for those under 12 years of age, US$250 a day up to US$5,000 a year for adu l t s, and US$400 a day up to US$30,000 a year for "special" travelers. In addition, a prior deposit of Col$15 per US$1 must be lodged w i th the Bank of the Repub l ic, re fundab le w i t h in six mon ths upon subm iss ion of evidence of amounts ac tua l ly spent, together w i th travel documents. 142 to a number of current payments; for profits transferred by branches of foreign companies, the tax is 20 percent. Colombian na t iona ls and resident foreigners are re- quired to pay a travel tax of US$15 whenever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of crude oil and certain other commodities are prohibited, and exports of certain foods tuffs are subject to quotas. Exports of certain other items, such as beef, are reserved for the Ins t i tu te de Mercado Agropecuario (IDEMA). No export licenses are required, but prior application for registration is necessary for all exports except samples and Colombian products in noncommer- cial quan t i t ies. When registering an export transaction, exporters must provide INCOMEX w i th either a personal guarantee in pesos (but w i thout depositing any funds) or a bank guarantee corresponding to 5 percent of the registered amoun t, calculated at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate. The periods for surrendering export proceeds normally are as follows: (1) for coffee, within 20 days from the date of registration of the export (180 days for instant coffee); and (2) for other goods, generally w i th in one year of registration. However, longer terms are permitted for exports to Ecuador and Venezue la, goods sold on a commission basis, for books, magazines, and other printed matter (18 months), capital goods (5 years), and other goods that normally require more extended payment terms. The Bank of the Repub l ic is empowered in certain cases to retain a portion of the exchange proceeds surrendered by the exporter of any product to repay debts for imports under the Vallejo Plan. All exchange proceeds from exports, except those from the export of crude oil not produced by the Empresa Colombiana de Petroleo (ECOPETROL), must be surrendered to the Bank of the Repub l ic; ECOPETROL and exporters of minerals associated w i th state enterprises also are permitted to retain part of their export proceeds abroad for the settlement of their import costs. On surrendering their export proceeds to the Bank of the Repub l ic, exporters of commodities other than coffee, raw cattle hides, or petroleum and petroleum products receive tax credit certificates (certiflcados de abono tributario, or CATs)4 in an amount corresponding to a specified percentage of the total earnings surren- dered, converted at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate. This rate is 5 percent, 10 percent, or 15 percent, depending on the commodity; the rates are calculated on domestic value added for specified assembly operations. These certificates, wh ich are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and sales taxes. The surrender of foreign currency earned by exporters can, as an option, be effected by exchang- 4By the end of 1983, p lans were under way to replace CATs w i th CERTs (certiflcados de reembolso tributario, or tax reimbursement certificates) wh ich were considered to be more f lex ib le and more suited to the trade promotion program. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing the foreign currency for exchange certificates (of 90 days' maturity) that are negotiable on the stock exchange. Minimum surrender prices for coffee, bananas, and a few other exports are set from time to time by the Monetary Board. Exports of coffee are subject to the following regulations: (1) A m in imum surrender price (reintegro) is fixed after deduction for freight and insurance at US$204.50 a 70-kilogram bag. (2) Export- ers pay a tax in foreign exchange at the rate of 6.5 per- cent ad valorem. Of this tax, 3.2 percentage points are paid to the National Coffee Fund, and 0.8 percentage points are paid to the Departmental Committees of Coffee Growers, while the remainder provides revenue for the Treasury's Special Exchange Account. (3) Ex- porters must either surrender w i thout payment (in the form of untreated coffee) the equ iva lent of 45 percent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention cafetera) or pay the National Federation of Coffee Growers the peso equivalent. (4) Exports of coffee are subject to an additional tax of 6 percent ad valorem (pasilla y ripio tax); the tax must be paid to the Federation either in kind or in pesos. (5) A committee composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Managing Director of the Federation establishes a domestic buy ing price for export-type coffee, ex- pressed in pesos per carga of 125 kilograms. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered; they are converted against exchange certificates which can be sold on the stock exchange. For surrenders in respect of gifts and the rendering of professional services other than medical, hospital, or educational services, prior authorization from the Exchange Office is required. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the certificate market rate. There is a 95 percent advance payment deposit on all ou tf lows, which must be lodged prior to applying for an exchange license. All foreign investment in Colombia, all new foreign loans, direct lines of foreign credit obtained by nonbank residents,5 and the movement of capital previously imported (except loans previously registered under De- cree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be registered with the Exchange Office. Capital imports require prior approval by the National Planning Department, and capital for the petroleum industry or for other mineral exploration in addition requires approval by the M in is try of Mines and Energy. Capital registration entitles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital at the certificate market rate on certain conditions specified in Suppliers' credits of a once-and-for-all nature also require registra- tion; their repayment is authorized by the exchange license covering the relevant import transaction. Such credits are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 2 percent over the New York prime rate or the London interbank offered rate. COLOMBIA Decree No. 1900 of September 15, 1973. The transfer of profits is lijnited to 20 percent of registered direct investment (beginning w i th profits earned in 1976), except for profits resulting from investments of outstand- ing importance or involving special risks in view of the circumstances prevailing in the international money market. If in any year the earnings remitted are less than 20 percent, the balance may be remitted in subsequent years; where the profits were earned (and not remitted) prior to the coming into force of Decree-Law No. 444 of 1967, the add i t ional remittances must not exceed 3 per- cent a year. New investments may be granted exemp- tions from import du ty and from advance deposit requirements. Capital invested in the petroleum industry is subject to special rules and to contractual provisions. All foreign banks and their branches must have Colom- bian ma jor i ty participation. In th is respect, "subre- gional" participations ( i .e ., from member countries of the Andean Pact) are treated as Colombian partici- pations. New direct foreign investment in banks, insur- ance companies, and other financial institutions may be made on ly by "national" or "mixed" companies, and by investors from member countries of the Andean Pact on the basis of reciprocal treatment. Foreign participation is also restricted in new or established companies engaged in the international resale of imported and domestic products or in activities related to tourism. Purchases of 10 percent or more of the shares of a Colombian f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion require the prior approval of the Bank ing Super in tenden t. Foreign loans contracted by private Colombian indi- viduals or firms are generally subject to a m in imum ma tu r i ty of three years w i th one year of grace and to an interest rate ceiling of 2.5 percent over the New York prime rate or LIBOR. Such loans normally are permitted on ly for f inanc ing working capital or fixed investment. Special regulations govern the periods for which resident banks may provide import f inanc ing from foreign cur- rency borrowed abroad. Foreign loans for national or governmental entities in excess of Col$10 million or US$500,000 require prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and the National Planning Department. For loans to the Government, or guaranteed by the Govern- men t, the fo l low ing are also required: prior authorization by the Na t ional Council for Economic and Social Policy and by the Monetary Board, prior consultation w i th the In terpar l iamen tary Committee on Public Credit, and ex post approval by the President of the Republic. Contracts invo lv ing royalties, commissions, trade^ marks or patents, and similar arrangements must be registered w i th the Exchange Office to enable the beneficiary to make transfers abroad. They require approval by the Royalties Committee before they can be registered. Colombian nationals who have invested abroad must surrender to the Bank of the Repub l ic, against exchange certificates, not only the interest, profits, commissions, and royalties but also the proceeds of the sale or l iqu ida t ion of the investment. Exports of capital by 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA residents are restricted, and such exports by private ind iv idua ls are not norma l ly perm i t ted. Current deposit accounts in fore ign currency may be held by insurance companies, export f i rm s, transporta- tion companies, and other specified en t i t ies, upon prior authorization of the Bank of the Repub l ic. A ce i l ing equivalent to 5 percent of the ir total fore ign l i ab i l i t i es is applied on the foreign currency deposits wh ich may be held by domestic f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s. Gold Natural and jur id ical persons may trade in Colombia in gold coins for num i sma t ic purposes on ly. W i th t h is exception, only the Bank of the Republic is entitled to purchase, sell, ho ld, import, or export gold. Impor ts of nonmonetary gold are not normally undertaken. The Bank of the Repub l ic purchases locally produced gold at the average price prevailing in the London and Zurich markets du r ing the preceding week; m i n i ng companies with foreign capital participation are paid 50 percent in foreign currency on presentation of exchange licenses entitling them to make payments abroad for services, d iv idends, capital repaymen ts, taxes, etc.; the r em a in ing 50 percent and all payments to domestic producers may be settled by means of exchange certificates w i th a maturity of 90 days. The certificates held by small producers are bought by the Bank of the Repub l ic in pesos at their market value. In add i t ion, the Bank of the Repub l ic levies an ad valorem tax of 2 percent on the total payment received by the m iner. The Bank of the Repub l ic makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use either direct or through the Colombian M in ing Association at a price equ iva lent to the average quotation in gold markets abroad du r ing the previous mon th; th is price is converted in to pesos at the prevailing selling rate of exchange certificates on the date of sale. The assay and refining houses and the m i n i ng compa- nies producing gold are under the superv is ion of the Superintendency of Exchange Control. In add i t ion, the m in ing companies must ob ta in a license from the Superintendency in order to carry on the ir operations. The Bank of the Repub l ic from t ime to t ime strikes commemorative gold coins, wh ich are legal tender. Residents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not no rma l ly granted. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement March 9. The redemption period for exchange cer t if i- cates was shortened from 690 to 90 days. September 12. The tax on coffee exports was reduced from 9 percent to 6.5 percent. Imports and Import Payments February 24. New m i n im um prices for the computa- tion of customs duties on the import of automobiles were introduced. 144 March 29. Twenty-seven products, inc lud ing lubr i- can ts, various chem ica ls, and small mach inery, were sh if ted from the freely importable to the import license regime. April 18. The import license regime was extended to cover about 700 items previously freely importable. April 27. Impo r ts of metal structures and a number of chem ical products were made subject to licensing, in c lud ing imports from other Andean Pact countries. April 28. Imports of wood were placed on the list of impor ts requ i r ing licenses. May 2. A l im it of US$500 a person a year was placed on personal imports of travelers re turn ing from at least 10 days stay abroad. May 18. Import i tems under 160 tariff headings were transferred from the free import regime to the licensing system. May 25. It was announced that a wide range of products inc luded in the import licensing list could be freely imported when or ig ina t ing from member countries of LA IA. June 21. Du t ies on a number of tariff items originat- ing from Mexico were reduced. June 21. Ad valorem ta r i f fs on imports of specified chem ical produc ts were f ixed at 12 percent. June 25. Import du t ies on most tar iff items were increased by 10 percent. July 22. Import du t ies were reduced on a number of t ex t i le i tems used as inpu ts for domestic production in specified sectors. July 26. Import ta r i f fs were reduced on a number of items if use was as inpu ts by specified domestic producers. August 29. A total of 25 items were transferred from the free import list to the licensing l is t. August 29. N ine tar iff items originating from coun- tries of the Andean Pact were transferred from the free import list to the l icens ing l is t. September 8. Tariffs on imports of campers were raised to between 70 percent and 198 percent. September 23. The advance exchange license deposit (Consignation) was reduced to 35 percent for all current paymen ts, w i th the exception of imports of medicines, books, and subscriptions to technical publications. In add i t ion the deposit rate for imports to the Free Zone was raised to 100 percent. October 10. Certain ag r icu l tu ral products imported from Andean Pact countries and previously on the free import l ist were transferred to the licensing l is t. October 24. Import items classified under 102 tariff head ings were transferred from the free import list to the licensing l is t. November 2. Au tho r iza t ion was granted for domestic credit in s t i tu t ions to finance imports of goods for immed ia te con sump t ion ( i n c l u d i ng raw materials and consumer goods, and equ ipment and capital goods) w i t h o ut adher ing to ex i s t ing regulations on m i n im um acceptable f inanc ing terms, i .e ., 9 months for the first category and 36 mon ths for the second. Importers were ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution thus free in arranging payments for their foreign pur- chases, regardless of the kind of financing obtained, i.e., from Colombian credit institutions, from foreign sup- pliers, or through direct foreign loans obtained under Articles 131 and 132 of the Exchange Statute. Payments for Invisibles April 6. The foreign exchange allowance for travel abroad was reduced to US$250 a person a day, up to US$5,000 a year (US$125 a day, up to US$2,500 a year for travelers under 12 years of age), and US$400 a day up to US$30,000 a year for "special" travelers. In addition, an advance deposit of Col$15 per US$1 was introduced on purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes; the deposit would be refunded upon the traveler's return after accounting for the amount spent and surrendering the unspent balance. April 22. An individual exchange license was in- troduced for payments in respect of international travel, freight, and bank commissions abroad. July 27. The advanced deposit requirement on sales of foreign exchange for travel purposes was raised to Col$50 per US$1. In addition, the allowance for busi- ness travelers was reduced to US$300 a day, up to US$20,000 a person a year. Exports and Export Proceeds February 22. The quota and compensation rates for exports of rice were fixed. March 23. Authorization was granted for the surren- der of foreign exchange proceeds from exports of coffee prior to actual shipment was authorized, within a limit of US$100 million; such exports were required to be effected within two months of the exchange surrender. March 24. The maximum permissible amount of preshipment financing was raised to 90 percent. May 5. Subsidies were introduced for air transporta- tion costs of exports of electric appliances to Peru. July 1. The maximum period for the repatriation of export receipts from Venezuela and Ecuador was in- creased to two years, with the addition that the period could be raised to three years with the authorization of INCOMEX. August 24. Changes were made in the regulations on noncoffee exports as follows: (a) exchange certificates could be issued during a period up to one year after shipment of merchandise if the terms of remittances permitted immediate registration of exports; and (b) ex- porters of capital goods of value above US$250,000, selling under terms of anticipated payment could be issued with exchange certificates up to 25 percent of the amount of such exports. August 30. The new rates for Certiflcados de Abono Tributario (CATs) were fixed at 5 percent, 15 percent, and 20 percent. September 12. The retention rate for coffee was fixed at 45 percent. September 23. The permissible prepayment term for coffee exports was reduced from 90 to 60 days. In COLOMBIA addition, the Central Bank was authorized to buy foreign currency from coffee exporters, up to US$100 million for the National Federation of Coffee Growers and US$200 million for other exporters. Final settlement of the foreign exchange would take place at the exchange rate prevailing on the fortieth day after sale, or at the rate of the shipment date, whichever was first. September 29. An incentive or compensation system equivalent to 5 percent of the increase in the f .o .b. value of exports was introduced for exporters of textiles to Latin American, European, and Caribbean countries. In addition, the quota and compensation system for exports of rice were increased. October 14. The m in imum export price for coffee was fixed at US$1.36 a pound. October 26. A US$10 million credit line was estab- lished by the Colombian authorities to finance exports of domestic goods to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. November 30. The m in imum surrender price for coffee was set at US$204.50 a 70-kilogram bag. December 20. The "Basic Law on Foreign Trade" (Law No. 48) was approved, with the main objective of adapting Colombia's external trade to changing interna- tional conditions. As part of the new legislation, the tax reimbursement certificate (CERT) system was estab- lished to encourage exports, in replacement of the CAT. The new system was intended to be flexible, to be modified by the Government from time to time, in accordance with conditions in external markets. In addition, the legislation included steps aimed at further- ing the development of Free Trade Zones and special trade systems involving barter, countertrade, triangular and border trade operations. Proceeds from Invisibles April 7. Authorization was granted for retail sales and sale of services to nonresidents to be settled in foreign currency; foreign exchange so obtained was required to be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic within five days. May 4. A ceiling of US$100 was fixed for sales of foreign exchange for tourist travel. Capital March 9. Steel enterprises were added to the list of enterprises eligible to borrow abroad to finance investments. April 13. Car assembly enterprises were added to the list of enterprises eligible to borrow abroad to finance investments, subject to a max imum of US$50 million an enterprise. April 27. Advance repayment of external loans to private entities was prohibited. September 27. Authorization was granted for private entities operating in the agricultural, mining, manufac- turing, and service sectors to contract foreign loans with 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA a maturity of at least three years and at least one year of grace, to finance working capital or fixed investment; the max imum permissible spread over LIBOR or the U.S. prime rate was fixed at 2.5 percent. October 5. A regulation was introduced, l im i t ing the amount wh ich domestic f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions could keep in foreign currency to 5 percent of their total foreign l iab i l i t ies. 146 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Comoros is the Comorian Franc (CF), which is pegged to the French franc, the interven- tion currency, at the fixed rate of CF 1 = F O.02. The current buying and selling rates for the French franc are CF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies1 are also officially quoted on the basis of the fixed rate of the Comorian franc for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the respective currencies in terms of the French franc. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of the Comoros do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Ter- ritories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose institute of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Comoros. The Ministry of Finance and Economy supervises borrowing and lending abroad, inward direct investment, and all outward investments. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to an authorized bank —the sole commer- cial bank —and to the Postal Administration. All ex- change transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the authorized bank or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic Affa irs in the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Prescription of Currency The Central Bank of Comoros ma in ta ins an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury; settlements w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Comorian francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usua l ly made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of South African origin are prohibited, and the import of certain other goods is prohibited from all countries. The import from any source of certain other commodities is subject to individual licensing. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Payments for Invisibles All payments to South Africa are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely. Those to other countries are subject to approval; w i th the exception of travel, for wh ich there are max imum allocations, such approvals are generally given liberally. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain up to CF 250,000 in foreign currency a person a trip. The m ax imum that may be allocated in bank notes is CF 125,000; the remainder may be in the form of a bank transfer, traveler's checks, a certified check, or any other means of paymen t. For business travel, a special allocation may be authorized by the Central Bank of Comoros upon the request of the authorized bank. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are prohibited. With a few exceptions, exports to France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses. Proceeds from ex- ports to foreign countries must normally be collected, and the receipts repatriated w i th in 30 days of the expiration of the commercial contract and sold im- mediately to the authorized bank. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with the authorized bank if the value is CF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign currency, be surrendered w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign bank notes and coin. 'Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, Hong Kong dollars, Kenya shillings, Mauritian rupees, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, South Afr ican rand, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U .S. dollars. Capital All settlements between the Comoros and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between the 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COMOROS Comoros and France (as defined above). Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are, in p r inc ip le, free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun- tries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries normally are permitted f I receipts and all outward investment; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require prior au tho r iza t ion and are not norma l ly permitted. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be app l icab le) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad, over inward direct inves tmen t, Changes During 1983 NO s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 148 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Repub l ic of the Congo is the CFA Franc,! wh ich is pegged to the French f ranc, the intervention currency, at the f ixed rate of CFAF 1 = FO.02. Exchange transactions in French francs between the BEAC and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buy ing and se l l ing rates for certain other foreign currencies are also o f f i c i a l ly posted, w i th quotations based on the f ixed rate for the French franc and the rates for the currencies concerned in the Paris exchange market. Payments to France and its Overseas Depar tmen ts and Territories, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun- tries (see section on Adm in i s t ra t ion of Control, be low ), as well as the purchase of those coun t r ies' b ank notes and traveler's checks, are subject to a comm iss ion of 0.75 percent, w i th a m i n im um charge of CFAF 75; exempt from th is commission are payments of the State, the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion, and the BEAC, salaries of Congolese d ip loma ts abroad, expend i tures of o f f ic ial missions abroad, scholarships of persons s tudy ing or training abroad, and debt service paymen ts due from companies that have entered into an agreement w i th the Congo. Most paymen ts to other foreign coun t r ies and credits to Foreign Accounts in Francs are subject to a commission of 1 percent or, for foreign exchange purchased by the Diamond Purchase Off ice, 0.50 per- cent; these commissions are subject to a m i n i m um of CFAF 100. A commission of 0.25 percent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Payments to the fo l low ing coun t r ies, a l though subject to declaration, are unrestricted: (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is l ink ed w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (B e n i n, Cameroon, the Central A f r ican R epub l i c, Chad, the Comoros, Gabon, Ivory Coast, M a l i, N ig e r, Senega l, Togo, and Upper Volta). Se t t lemen ts and inv e s tm ent transactions w i th all foreign coun t r ies, however, are subject to control. Foreign coun tr ies are de f ined as all countries other than the Congo. The Office of External F inanc ial Re la t ions in the M in is t ry of Finance supervises borrowing and l end ing abroad. Exchange control is adm in is tered by the M in i s- ter of Finance, who has delegated his approval au tho r i ty to the Office of Ex ternal F inanc ial Re la t ion s. All exchange transactions must be effected th rough au tho- rized banks or the Postal Adm in is tra t ion. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the M in i s t ry of Commerce, except those for gold, wh i ch are granted by the Office of External Financial Re la t ions. Prescription of Currency Since the Congo is an Operations Account coun try, se t t lemen ts w i th France (as def ined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other in s t i tu te of issue that m a in t a ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Se t t lemen ts w i th the People's R epub l ic of Ch ina are made th rough special accounts established und er a b i la te ral paymen ts agreement .2 Se t t lemen ts w i th all other coun tr ies are u su a l ly made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions pe r ta in ing to nonres ident accounts are based on those app l ied in France. The crediting of BEAC bank notes to Foreign Accounts in Francs is permitted when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in B razzav i l le by the foreign correspondent of an autho- rized b a n k. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts from all sources requ ire prior au thor iza t ion. There is an ind ica t ive a n n u al import program wh ich d i s t ingu i sh es between f ive zones: (1) the countries of the Central A f r i c an Customs and Economic Un ion (UDEAC ); (2) France; (3) other countries of the French Franc Area; (4) EC coun tr ies other than France; and (5) all r em a in ing countries. All imports under this program requ ire licenses. The import program does not i n c l u de pe tro leum imports, for wh ich a jo int quota is set for the coun tr ies of the UDEAC. Also outside the program are impor ts for the Government under foreign aid and b i la te ral paymen ts agreements, and imports made by the Office Na t ional du Commerce (OFNACOM). OFNACOM has a monopoly over certain import items, i n c l u d i ng hardware, rice, canned tomatoes, salt, and salted f ish from all sources, certain cotton piece goods from J ap an, and certain o ther tex t i les from the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina. The quotas for non-EC countries may be used to import goods o r ig ina t ing in any country ou ts ide the French Franc Area. All import transac t ions re la t ing to countries other than France (as de f ined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun t r ies must be dom ic i led w i th an authorized 'The CFA franc c i r cu l a t ing in the Congo is issued by the Banque cles Etats de 1 'A f r ique Cen tra le (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central A f r ican R e p u b l i c, Chad, and Gabon. 2There are inope ra t ive paymen ts agreements w i th Bu lg a r ia and the Democratic People's R epub l ic of Korea. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO bank. Licenses for imports from countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require the visa of the Foreign Trade Bureau and the Office of External Financial Relations. The approved import license entitles importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documents are submitted to an authorized bank. All imports must be insured w i th the state insurance company, Societe d'Assurances et de Reassurances du Congo (SARC). To implement th is measure, the Con- golese Customs Service releases imports on ly after an insurance certificate issued by the SARC has been produced. There has been some accumu la t ion. of arrears on external payments ow ing to the imposition of statutory ceilings on central bank credit to the Government and an ensuing shortage of domestic currency w i th wh ich to purchase foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely provided they have been declared and are made through an authorized intermediary; those to other foreign countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval au tho r i ty has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zaire may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) or CFAF 10,000 if the duration of the trip is less than 24 hours, for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 rema in ing after return to the Congo must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a trip; additional amoun ts may be authorized in appropriate cases. The use of credit cards abroad by residents is prohibited. There are special facilities for travelers to Kinshasa who request no foreign means of payment other than Zairian bank notes. Residents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, or an Operations Account country may take out CFAF 25,000 (CFAF 12,500 for children under ten) in BEAC bank notes. Residents and nonresidents travel- ing to foreign countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, the Operations Account countries, or Zaire may freely take out up to a m a x im um of 150 CFAF 10,000 in BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue m a in t a in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner work ing in the Congo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i t h in three mon ths of the pay period. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports requ ire prior au tho r iza t ion. Most exports to coun tr ies in the French Franc Area may be made freely; among the exceptions are commodities exported by the N a t ion al Ma rke t ing Office for Agr icu l tural Prod- ucts (Office Na t ional de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles) and by the Na t ional Marke t ing Office for Timber (Office Congolais du Bois). Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally w i t h in 180 days of arrival of the commodities at the ir des t ina t ion. Export proceeds mu st be surrendered w i t h in a mon th of the due date. All export transactions re la t ing to countries other than France (as def ined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled w i th an au thor ized b a n k. Proceeds from Invisibles All amoun ts due from residents of foreign countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from fore ign assets must be collected when due and surrendered w i t h in a mon th of the due date. Resident and nonres ident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue m a in t a in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin). Capital Movements of f u n ds between the Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count coun t r ies are free, though ex post declarations are required. Such movements to countries that are not members of the BEAC are subject to a commission of 0.25 percent. Most in te rna t ional capital transactions are subject to prior au tho r iza t ion. Capital transfers abroad require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from abroad generally are permitted free ly. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embody ing c la ims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in the Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited w i th authorized banks in the Congo. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lend ing abroad, over inward and outward direct inve s tmen t, and over the issu ing, adver- t is ing, and o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in the Congo; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to paymen ts or receipts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Direct investments abroad3 requ ire the pr ior approval of the M in is ter of F inance; the f u ll or par t ial l i q u i d a t i on of such investments also requires the pr ior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct inve s tmen ts in the Congo4 require prior approval by the M in i s t er of F inance, un le ss they involve the creation of a m ixed-economy enterprise. The fu ll or partial l iqu id a t ion of direct inves tmen ts in the Congo must be declared to the M in i s t e r. Both the making and the l iqu id a t ion of direct inv e s tm en t s, whether these are Congolese inve s tmen ts abroad or foreign investments in the Congo, mu st be reported to the Minister w i t h in 20 days. Direct inv e s tm en ts are defined as investments im p l y i ng control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, adver t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of fore ign securities in the Congo requires prior au tho r i z a t ion by the M in is ter of Finance. Exempt from au tho r i z a t ion, however, a re operations in connec t ion w i th ( 1) borrow- ing backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Govern- ment and (2) shares s im i l ar to secur i t ies whose issue, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale in the Congo has already been au thor ized. Borrowing by residents from non res iden ts requ i res prior au thor iza t ion by the M in i s t er of F inance. However, loans contracted by registered banks and sm a ll loans, where the total amount o u t s t a n d i ng does not exceed CFAF 10 m i l l ion for any one borrower, are ex empt from this requ i remen t. The con t rac t ing of loans that are free of au thor iza t ion, and each repayment the reon, mu st be reported to the Office of Ex te rnal F inanc ial Re la t ions w i th in 20 days of the opera t ion. Lending by residents to non res iden ts is s u b j e ct to 3In c lud ing those made th rough fo re ign compan ies t h at are d i r e c t ly or indirectly controlled by persons in the Congo and those made by branches or subs id ia r ies abroad of compan ies in the Congo. 4In c lud ing those i n v o l v i ng the t r a n s f e r, be tween non re s iden t s, of funds in the form of pa r t ic ipa t ion in the cap i tal of a Congolese company. PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO exchange con tro l, and all l end ing in CFA francs to nonres iden ts is p roh ib i ted, un less special au tho r iza t ion is ob ta ined from the M in i s t er of F inance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from th is au tho r iza t ion: ( 1) loans in fore ign currenc ies granted by registered banks; (2) o ther loans in foreign currencies when the total amount ou t s t and ing of these loans does not exceed the equ iv a l ent of CFAF 5 m i l l i on for any one lender; and (3) foreign currency loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 percent a year and whose m a t u r i ty is two years or less. The m a k i ng of loans that are free of authoriza- t i o n, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Ex ternal F inanc ial Re la t ions w i th in 20 days. Under the Inve s tment Code of Ap r il 26, 1973, a n um b er of pr iv i leges may be granted to approved foreign inv e s tm en t s. The Code provides for four categories of p re fe ren t ial t rea tmen t. Gold By v i r t ue of Decree No. 66/236 of J u ly 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of Augu st 29, 1966, residents are free to ho ld gold in the form of coin, art objects, or jewe l ry; however, to hold gold in any other form or to impo rt or export gold in any fo rm, from or to any other c o u n t r y, the p r ior au tho r i z a t ion of the M in is ter of F inance is requ ired. Exempt from the latter require- ment are ( 1) impor ts and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BEAC, and (2) impor ts and exports of m anu f a c tu r ed a r t ic les con t a in ing a m inor qu an t i ty of gold (such as go ld - f i l led or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and ex empt impo r ts of gold are subject to cus toms dec la ra t ion. There are no o f f ic ial exports of go ld. Changes During 1983 No s ign i f i c ant changes occurred in the exchange and trade sys tem. 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Costa Rica is the Costa R ican Colon. Costa Rica maintains a un i f ied exchange market in wh ich all transactions other than the surrender of 1 per- cent of export proceeds take place at <£ 43.15 = US$1 buy ing and (£ 43.65 = US$1 se l l ing. Export proceeds are converted at a mixed exchange rate composed of 1 percent at the official rate of (t 20 = US$1 and 99 percent at the bank ing rate of 0 43.15 = US$1 .' The spread between the buy ing and se l l ing rates in the banking exchange market is legally set at (£. 0.50. Purchases and sales of other Central American curren- cies are effected on the basis of quo ta t ions in colones, taking into account the va lue of those currencies in terms of U.S. dollars in the parallel exchange markets of the respective countries. A stamp tax of 1 percent applies to most foreign paymen ts .2 Costa Rica formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange controls are operated by the Central B a n k. The only ins t i tu t ions authorized to deal w i th foreign exchange transactions are the Central Bank of Costa Rica, the state commercial banks, and certain private banks authorized by the Central B ank. Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U .S. dollars. Following the exchange measures introduced in December 1980, it was decided that payments to other member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM) in respect of trade and trade-related inv is ib les wou ld con t inue to be made in Costa Rican colones through the Central American Clearing House, but must be made by means of checks and drafts denominated in U .S. dollars and drawn on Costa Rican banks. Payments to and from Colombia in respect of commercial operations, services, and capital may be made in U .S. dollars through a reciprocal credit arrangement between the member cen- tral banks of the Central American C lear ing House and the Bank of the Republic of Colombia. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade, inv is ib les, and capital may also be made in U .S. dollars under an agreement between the member central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Bank of Mexico. Imports and Import Payments There is no import l icens ing, and all import paymen ts may be made f ree ly, subject to subm iss ion of evidence of p r ior reg is tra t ion (see below), except for goods o r ig ina t ing in CACM coun tr ies or Panama. Imports made on a barter basis require a barter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the M in i s t ry of Economy and Commerce. To be e l ig ib le for foreign exchange, orders for impor ts va lued at over US$500 must be registered w i th the Cen tral B a nk upon con f i rma t ion by the foreign supp l ie r, un less the goods or ig ina te in CACM countries or Panama. Impor ts from Sou th Africa are proh ib i ted. In add i t ion to any app l icab le customs d u t y, the fo l low ing taxes are levied on imports ( 1) a stamp tax of 3 percent of the customs du ty on commodities not covered by the common ex ternal ta r i ff of the CACM; (2) a sales tax of 10 percent ad va lorem, from wh i ch certain essen t ial items are exemp t; (3) a selective consump t ion tax at rates of 10 percent, 40 percent, and 65 percent, depend ing on the considered degree of essen t ia l i ty; and (4) a general surcharge of 1 percent on all imports, except impor ts of med ic ines and related inpu t s, school supp l ies and related i n p u t s, fuel o r ig in a t ing in Central America and Panama, indu s t r ial inpu t s, and spare parts and cap i tal goods for indu s t r i al and agr icu l tural enter- prises w i th ac t iv i t ies hav ing a positive net effect on the balance of paymen ts. (A 2 percent surcharge is levied on indus t r ial inpu t s, spare parts, and capital goods for enterprises not hav ing such an e f fec t .) In add i t ion, other levies are imposed as fo l lows: a 2 percent surcharge on cap i tal and consumer goods o r ig ina t ing in Central Amer ica and Panama, as we ll as on construction mate- rials; a 10 percent surcharge on cap i tal goods coming from ou ts ide Cen tral America, veh ic les w i th an engine d isp lacement of less than 1,250 cub ic cen t ime ters (or of greater d i sp l a c em ent if they are for commercial use and have a load capac i ty of more than 2 tons); a 12.5 percent surcharge for consumer goods o r ig ina t ing outside Cen- tral America; a 200 percent surcharge on all other types of vehicles not inc luded in the 10 percent category; and a stamp tax of 1 percent on import paymen ts other than those for imports of inpu ts and mach inery for use in produc ing non t r ad i t ion al exports (see footnote 2). There is also a sm a ll consu lar tax on certain imports. Under the prov is ions of the Central Amer ican Agree- ment on Fiscal Incen t ives, Costa R ica grants du ty exonerations on impor ts of raw ma ter ia ls and capital goods to approved indu s t r i al f i rm s. 'Ow ing to the long-term na ture of the financing obtained for selected imports prior to the ir transfer from the o f f i c i al to the b a n k i ng ma rke t, sporadic payments s t i ll take place at the o f f i c i al rate as those debts are settled. 2Under legislation approved by the Na t ional Assemb ly on J anu a ry 9, 1984, the stamp tax on foreign exchange sales is to be replaced by an equ iva lent import du ty. Payments for Invisibles The stamp tax of 1 percent is app l ied to outward re- m i t tances other than rem i t tances to s tuden ts abroad, paymen ts de r iv ing from the Zonas Procesadoras de Expor tac ion, S .A. (Export Processing Zones) system, 152 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution payments of self-management cooperatives, savings and credit cooperatives, service cooperatives and labor unions, payments of state institutions stemming from loans used in Costa Rica on a not-for-profit basis, remittances of state ins t i tu t ions of h igher education, and dues of Costa Rican cooperatives and unions to interna- tional organizations (see footnote 2). In addition, w i thho ld ing taxes of 15 percent and 10 percent, respectively, are levied on remittances abroad of dividends and interest; interest on certain borrowing abroad (e.g., from government banks) is exemp t. Costa Rican nationals traveling abroad by air must pay an exit visa ($ 84) and an airport tax (<£ 360); Costa R ican nationals who reside abroad must pay, in add i t ion, a consular fee of US$5 upon renewal of the ir passports abroad. For residents covered by Law No. 4812 (pen- sionados rentistas) and residents not so covered, the payment differs from the national one. Costa Rican diplomats and certain Peace Corps o f f ic ia ls pay an ex it fee of only $ 6, provided their passport states that they are exempt from the above charges. Civil servants and students are not exempt from these paymen ts un less so determined by the M in i s t ry of Finance or the M igra t ion Council. Costa Rican minors are subject to all the above payments, except for dependents of d ip lom a t ic parents, who pay only the <£ 6 exit fee. Commercial banks dealing with the free market may sell foreign ex- change —without prior au thor iza t ion of the Central Bank —in the fo l low ing amounts: (a) for foreign trave l, a limit of US$100 a day up to a m ax imum of US$800 a traveler (upon presentation of passport and travel tickets, commercial banks are authorized to sell the equ iva lent of this amount in the currency of a Central Amer ican country to travelers to Central American countries other than Panama); (b) for fam i ly remittances, up to US$500 a month a person to a m ax imum of US$1,000 a f am i l y; and (c) for unregistered students, a m a x im um of US$500 a month for l iv ing expenses, in add i t ion to t u i t i o n, textbooks, and insurance upon presentation of docu- ments. Subject to the approval by the Central Bank, these l im i ts may be exceeded where ju s t i f ied by evidence of a bona fide current expend i tures for the specified purpose. Prior authorization by the Central Bank is also required for any foreign exchange purchases for the servicing of private foreign debt, foreign payment of dividends, royalties, patent rights, and professional services. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to ensure that exchange proceeds are surrendered to the bank ing system; the latter sell to the Central Bank all of their purchases (1 percent of export proceeds at the o f f ic ial rate and 99 percent at the b ank ing rate). Exporters of nontraditional commodities to markets outside Central America are entitled to tax credit certificates (CATs, which are freely negotiable) corresponding to 15 percent of the f.o.b. value. In add i t ion, exporters of nontra- ditional commodities eligible for CATs may also receive certificates for increases in exports (CIEX) for 1-10 per- COSTA RICA cent of the increase in the f .o .b. value of exports over the preceding calendar year; the certificates are redeemable against cash at the Central Bank. Licenses from the Central Bank are necessary for the exportation of merchandise. In addition to the export license from the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: strategic materials, such as arma- men ts, mun i t ion s, scrap iron, and scrap of nonferrous base metals (from the Ministry of Economy and Com- merce); sugar (from the Ag r icu l tu ral Indus tr ial Board for Sugarcane); beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred cattle (from the National Council of Production); airplanes (from the C iv il Av ia t ion Board and the M in i s t ry of Economy and Commerce); Ind ian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay (from the National Museum ); tobacco (from the Tobacco Defense Board); lumbe r, root of ipecacuanha, certain livestock, and animals and plants of forest origin (from the Ministry of Ag r icu l tu re and Livestock); and coffee (from the Coffee Office); in add i t ion, when there is a lien on coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. Exports to South A f r ica are prohibited. The exchange proceeds from coffee, bananas, sugar, beef, bovine ca t t le, and other perishable items must be surrendered w i t h in 30 days of sh ipmen t; for exports of other agricultural goods, as well as industrial goods other than capital goods, the deadline is 90 days from sh ipmen t. Foreign-owned banana companies that have contracts w i th the Government must surrender their net export proceeds, wh ich are calculated by deduc t ing from the ir gross export proceeds (1) profits obtained du r ing the year from their transactions in Costa Rica; (2) the allowance for depreciation on the ir investment in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U .S. Internal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in foreign currency; and (4) the cost of imports made during the year that were necessary for their normal business in Costa Rica. There are no taxes on nontraditional exports to countries outside of the Central American Area and Panama, wh i le trad i t ional exports do pay tax, in some cases graduated in line w i th the international prices. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles are free from controls or restrictions. Capital All capital transfers between residents and nonresi- dents may be made, subject to prior authorization by the Central Bank. Capital received by the private sector may be registered at the Central Bank of Costa Rica, provided that it meets var ious requirements, inc lud ing the require- ments that (a) the project financed w i th the funds has (or w i ll eventually have) directly or indirectly, a positive effect on Costa R ica's balance of payments, (b) the amount of the capital is not less than US$50,000, and (c) the ind iv idual concerned sells the foreign exchange to the Central Bank. The registration guarantees the indi- v idual that the Central Bank w i ll sell to him the exchange 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA required to service the debt at the exchange rate in force at the time the servicing is effected. The National Budget Authority3 is in charge of authorizing the negotiation of new external credits contemplated by the Central Gov- ernment, decentralized agencies, and state enterprises. Foreign and domestic capital transferred from abroad may be deposited as time deposits in U .S. dollars w i th agent banks in the form of specified foreign currencies or be invested in certificates of deposit denominated in colones; such fund s, when they ma ture, are repaid in the currency in which the deposits were made. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coin or bars as part of the monetary reserves in accordance with regulations established by its Board. Private physical and jur id ical persons may negoti- ate freely, at home or abroad, domestically produced gold (except national archaeological treasures), provided there is no infraction of international agreements. As in the case of other exports, licenses from the Central Bank are required for exports of gold. Gold may also be held in any form in Costa Rica. The Central Bank does not supply gold to artistic or professional users. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement November 11. The banking and the free market exchange rates were un i f ied at $ 43.15 = US$1 buy ing, and #43 .65 = US$1 selling. Imports and Import Payments February 24. Settlement for imports of medicines and medical equipment by the M in is try of Health, the Social Security Fund, and the Technical Council for Medical 3Composed of the Minister of Finance, M in is ter of P l a n n i n g, and the President of the Central Bank. and Social Assistance was transferred from the official market to the bank ing market. June 28. The rates of the temporary surcharge on imports from outside Central America and Panama were raised by 2J/2 percentage points. Payments for Invisibles July 27. The mon th ly allowance of foreign exchange obtainable at the official exchange rate for remittances to students pu r su ing h igher education abroad was reduced by 50 percent. August 19. A stamp tax of 1 percent was levied on most foreign payments, w i th the notable exception of service payments on external pub l ic debt, payments by state un ive rs i t ies, cooperatives and trade un ions, pay- ments for imports serving as inpu ts in the production of non trad i t ional exports, and contributions to international organizations. December 31. Remittances to students pursu ing higher education abroad ceased to be eligible for foreign exchange in the official market. Exports and Export Proceeds April 29. The surrender requirement for export pro- ceeds at the o f f ic ial rate was reduced from 5 percent to 1 percent, w i th a corresponding increase from 95 percent to 99 percent in the portion required to be surrendered at the bank ing rate. June 28. The surrender requirement of export pro- ceeds at the b ank ing exchange rate was reduced from 99 percent to 98 percent, and the 1 percent was permitted to be sold in the free market. August 19. The exchange rate d ifferen t ial tax of 1 percent levied on nontraditional exports outside Cen- tral America was e l im ina ted. December 10. The exchange rate d ifferen t ial taxes app ly ing at the rates of 5 percent on nontraditional exports to Central America and of 10 percent on trad i t ional exports were abolished. 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Cyprus is the Cyprus Pound. The exchange rate for the Cyprus pound is adjusted daily with the aim of ma in ta in ing its effective relationship with the currencies of the main trading partners. On December 31, 1983 the off ic ial buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were £C 0.5559 and £C 0.5568, respectively, per US$1. The Central Bank of Cyprus also quotes daily buy ing and selling rates for the deutsche mark, the Greek drachma, and the pound sterling. It also quotes indicative rates for other foreign currencies! on the basis of market rates in international money market centers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Central Bank offers authorized dealers (banks) facilities for forward purchases and sales of U .S. dollars and pounds sterling for periods of up to six months, in respect of trade and tourist transactions only. Rates for longer periods are available for exports, on request. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank in cooperation w i th authorized dealers. Au thor i ty to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange for a number of purposes has been delegated to authorized dealers. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any foreign currency;2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Cyprus pounds from an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus may open and maintain w i th authorized banks nonresident accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated External Accounts, or foreign currency accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with payments from nonresidents of Cyprus (such as transfers from other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts), proceeds from sales of any foreign currency by nonresidents ( inc lud ing declared bank notes), and the entire proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the sale of an investment made by a nonresident in Cyprus with the approval of the Central Bank and with authorized payments in Cyprus pounds. External Accounts and foreign currency accounts may be debited for payments to residents and nonresidents, for 'Aus t ra l ian dollars, Aus t r ian sch i l l ing s, Be lg ian francs (commer- cial), Canadian dollars, Dan ish kroner, F inn i sh ma rkkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Cyprus pound. remittances abroad, for transfers to other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and for pay- ments in cash in Cyprus. Companies registered or incorporated in Cyprus wh ich are accorded nonresident status by the Central Bank may maintain External Accounts and foreign currency accounts in Cyprus or abroad. Blocked Accounts are ma in ta ined in the name of nonresidents for funds that may not immediately and in the ir entirety be transferred outside Cyprus under the existing exchange control regulations. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or be invested in government securities or government-guaranteed securi- ties. Income earned on blocked funds so invested is freely transferable to the nonresident beneficiary or it may be credited to an External Account or foreign currency account. In addition to income, the principal released in each such case annually for transfer outside Cyprus is not less than £C 5,000. Funds can also be released from Blocked Accounts to meet reasonable educational expenses in Cyprus of the account holder's ch i ld ren, reasonable l iv ing expenses of the account holder wh i le v is i t ing Cyprus, donations to charitable ins t i tu t ions in Cyprus, and for other authorized purposes. Imports and Import Payments Cyprus follows a liberal import licensing regime. Most imports are free of licensing requirements. Only imports of certain commodities require an import license. Such commodities inc lude goods produced or manufactured locally, as well as all machinery, plants and equ ipmen t, spare parts and accessories. The M in is ter of Commerce and Indus try may take measures whenever required to regulate the importation of goods for the encouragement of local production and manu fac tu re. Exchange is allocated to pay for imports freely and w i thout restriction through authorized banks, provided that documentary evidence of shipment or actual importation of goods is available. Advance payments before shipment require the prior approval of the Central Bank, except for imports whose value does not exceed £C 100. Payments for imports free from licensing requirements effected after 200 days from the date of shipment also require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Payments for imports requiring a license are expected to be made w i th in the t ime l im i ts specified on the license. An import surcharge of 6 percent (3.9 percent for imports from EC countries) ad valorem is levied on all imports except food, feeds tuff, pharmaceuticals, and goods imported by the Government. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles abroad require the approval of the Central Bank, but approval for certain types of 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS payments has been delegated to authorized banks. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments are transferable abroad w i thout l im i ta t ion, after payment of any due charges and taxes. Insurance premiums due to foreign insurance companies are remit- table after deduction of all contingencies. Allowances are granted for study abroad at colleges, un ivers i t ies, or other institutions of higher education. Education allow- ances for ins t i tu t ions of lower level may be approved by the Central Bank. Exchange allowances are based on the cost of living and cover the fu ll amount of tu i t ion fees plus living expenses for the s tuden t. For studies in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Middle East, Yugoslavia, and COMECON countries, the max imum yearly allowance for living expenses is £C 1,600; for Canada and the United States, £C 3,500; for the United K ingdom, £C 2,600; and for all other countries, £C 2,400. There is no limit for the remittance of foreign exchange for payment of tu i t ion fees. The exchange allowance for tourist travel is £C 350 a person a year; the allowance for business travel is not f ixed, but depends on the length of stay abroad, the country or countries to be v is i ted, and the purpose; for medical treatment abroad, the amount is unlimited but based on actual expenses. On leaving Cyprus, travelers may take out w i th them up to £C 10 in currency notes. Residents may also take out foreign currency notes up to the equ iva lent of £C 250 a trip as part of any of their foreign exchange allow- ances. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency notes they declared on arrival. In addition, authorized banks may convert up to £C 100 into foreign currency for departing nonresidents. Fur- thermore, authorized banks are permitted to issue to nonresidents any amount of foreign currency notes against external funds; delivery of such notes normally takes place through a bank 's branch at the port of departure. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes and carrots are subject to control by the respective Marketing Boards, and those of wheat, barley, and maize to control by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Exports of cement are subject to a license for the purpose of ensuring adequate domestic supp ly. All exports are subject to licensing when the f .o .b. value exceeds £C 100, to ensure the inflow of the sales proceeds. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i thout delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to £C 10 in Cyprus currency notes. Capital Payments abroad of a capital nature require prior approval. Applications for outward direct investment by residents are approved provided they are expected to contribute to foreign exchange inf lows and the exporta- 156 tion of goods and services. Such investments include those by construction and tourist companies. Investments in Cyprus by nonresidents require also the prior approval of the Central Bank. In considering applications, due regard is given to the purpose of the inves tmen t, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings or earn ings, in t roduc t ion of know-how, and, in general, the benefits accruing to the na t ional economy. Foreign direct investment is normally permitted in selected fields of production such as export-oriented industries and new products. Yearly profits and proceeds from the l iqu id a t ion of approved foreign investments may be repatriated in f u ll at any t ime, after payment of any due charges and taxes. W i th the permission of the Council of Ministers, alien nonresidents may acquire in Cyprus immovable property for use as a residence or ho l iday home; they are required to pay the value of such property in foreign exchange. The sales proceeds of such property are transferable outside Cyprus up to the amount originally paid for the purchase of the property; the balance, if any, is transfer- able at the yearly rate of £C 5,000. Residents of Cyprus (Cypriots or foreign nationals) who take up residence outside Cyprus may transfer abroad immed ia te ly up to £C 5,000; any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. The transfer abroad of funds resu l t ing from estates and intestacies and from the sale of real estate is limited to £C 5,000, w i th any excess amount to be credited to a Blocked Account. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require prior permission from the Central Bank. In principle, all securities held abroad by residents are subject to registration. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for num isma t ic purposes. W i th th is exception, residents other than the monetary au thor i t ies, authorized dealers in gold, and indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to indus tr ial users. The export of gold requires the permis- sion of the exchange control authorities. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement April 5. The extended facilities for forward purchases and sales of U .S. dollars and pounds sterling were extended to tourist transactions. Nonresident Accounts January J. The Central Bank raised the maximum amount that could be released w i t h in a calendar year from Blocked Accounts from £C 1,000 to £C 5,000. Payments for Invisibles April 7. The m a x im um amount of foreign currency notes that could be issued to residents as part of any of their foreign exchange allowances was increased from the equ iva lent of £C 100 to the equ iva lent of £C 250. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Denmark is the Dan ish Krone. Denmark participates w i th Be lg ium, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ire land, I ta ly, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and in terven t ion mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance w i th th is agreement, Denmark ma in ta ins the spot exchange rates between the Dan ish krone and the currencies of the other participants w i t h in margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the I ta l ian l i ra, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Un i ts (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Na t ional Bank of Denmark (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other par t ic ipa t ing states in u n l im- ited amounts at specified in terven t ion rates. On Decem- ber 31, 1983 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire Dan ish Kroner Upper l im it Lower l im it 18.543 371.4 1 2 1 . 11 329.63 1,147.35 0.6159 17.727 355.06 115.78 315 .13 1,096.87 0.5463 The participants in the EMS are not m a in t a in ing the exchange rates for other currencies w i t h in f ixed l im i t s. However, in order to ensure a proper fun c t ion ing of the system, the Danish central bank intervenes to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates, the in terven t ion currency being primarily the U .S. dollar. M idd le rates for 18 foreign currencies are quoted da i ly on the basis of market rates .1 On December 30, 1983 the middle rate for the U .S. dollar was DKr 9.875 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage both spot and forward. Spot transactions are def ined as transactions where actual delivery takes place w i t h in two banking days; transactions that ma ture in three bank ing days or more are defined as forward t ransac t ions .2 Spot transactions in all currencies, inc lud ing Danish kroner, and forward transactions involving purchases of foreign currencies against sales of foreign currencies may be 'Aus t r ian sch i l l ings, Belgian francs, Canad ian do l la r s, deu tsche mark, F inn ish markkaa, French f rancs, Ice land ic k r o n u r, I r ish pound s, Italian lire, Japanese y en, Ne the r lands gu i ld e r s, No rweg ian k ron e r, Portuguese escudos, pounds s te r l ing, Span ish pesetas, Swed ish k rono r, Swiss francs, and U .S. do l lars. 2W i th effect from Janua ry 1, 1984, Denmark has l ib e r a l i z ed regulations on forward foreign exchange transac t ions, option con t rac ts for foreign exchange, and forward contracts conc luded on currency exchanges abroad. L ibera l iza t ion measures were also in troduced in regard to transactions in secur i t ies. concluded freely w i th domestic and foreign banks. Forward transactions that involve Danish kroner may also be concluded, but for not more than two years; fur thermore, special rules apply for the forward sale of foreign currencies against Danish kroner to foreign correspondents and for forward dea l ings against Danish kroner w i th nonresident customers. Forward prem iums and discounts are genera l ly left to the interplay of market forces. Forward transactions w i th residents that involve Danish kroner must cover contractual payments for goods and services or paymen ts on authorized loans and credits, the paymen ts covered being due not more than three years from the date of the forward contract. Forward transac t ions w i th resident customers, wh ich do not invo lve Danish kroner, must also cover either claims or l iab i l i t ies in one of the two currencies concerned, but the requ iremen ts w i th respect to contractual payments are less strict in th is case. Denmark fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle V I I I, Sections 2 , 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Na t ional Bank and the authorized exchange dealers, that is, most bank s, some savings banks, and some stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. The exchange regulations generally do not apply to ind iv idual transactions and transfers of DKr 25,000 or less. Transfers of up to DKr 25,000 may, in any even t, be made w i thout delivery of forms. Perm iss ion, when requ ired, for foreign direct invest- ments in Denmark has to be obtained from the Ministry of Indu s t ry. Licenses for imports and exports, when requ ired, are issued by the M in is t ry of Indus try, the M in is t ry of Ag r icu l tu re, or the M in is try of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Danish kroner. The Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Krone Accounts are convertible, on ly exceptions are Emigrant Accounts. Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign bank s, insurance companies, and shipping companies, and for in s t i tu t ions of the EC. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, provided that the total credit balance of the accounts of an ind iv idual nonresi- dent does not exceed DKr 300,000; any amount in excess of DKr 300,000 must be transferred abroad 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK w i th in three days. Special accounts not subject to a max imum balance may be opened for nonresidents, provided they are credited only w i th the l iqu ida t ion proceeds or capital earnings from certain investments in Denmark and some other funds. Emigrant Accounts are kept by authorized exchange dealers for holding l iqu id assets owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants, to the extent that the amounts exceed the exchange allowance of DKr 100,000 available to each person at the time of departure. Certain payments to residents may be made freely from these accounts, and the balances are in any case made convertible one year after departure. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities, except for textiles, are free of licensing from all sources. For textiles, a common EC system of export-import licenses has now been estab- lished for almost all countries exporting low-priced textiles. The only commodities that require a license when originating in or purchased from member countries of the EC are alcoholic beverages, and unw rought and semimanufactured gold. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Repub l ic of Korea, or any other non-state-trading, non-EC coun try. A larger num- ber of items require a license when or ig ina t ing in or purchased from A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, the People's Re- public of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, the U .S .S .R ., or Viet Nam. Payments for imports and the related sh ipp ing ex- penses may as a general rule be made freely w i th in f ive years from the end of the month in which the goods were cleared through customs, provided that the terms of payment conform to normal commercial practice in the trade concerned. Repayments of debts must not be made more than 30 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest customary date in the trade). However, commercial credits can be repaid at any time if a discount is obtained as a result, provided the payment is made to the supplier and conforms to normal commercial practice in the trade concerned. Prepayments linked to trade in goods and services that are in conformity w i th normal commercial practice may be granted to nonresidents up to one year prior to the expected date of import or the expected date of perfor- mance of the service; the permitted period is up to five years for capital goods (ships, aircraft, heavy mach ine ry, and major installations) when purchased for an amount of DKr 1 million or more. All other advance payments for imports require prior approval by the National Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments by residents for most invisibles may be made freely; only a few cases require approval from the National Bank. Authorized banks are empowered to allow the transfer up to DKr 40,000 a person a year of foreign nationals' wages and salaries earned in Den- 158 ma rk, provided that the person concerned has not resided in Denmark for more than seven years and the transfer is made to the remitter's own account abroad. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated freely and may be obtained for travel to any country, but not earlier than 30 days before the t r ip if the amount applied for exceeds the equ iva lent of DKr 25,000. Travelers may take out freely DKr 25,000 in Danish bank notes and coin, and any amount in foreign bank notes or other means of payment. Nonresidents may, in add i t ion, export amoun ts of up to DKr 50,000 or any such larger amount in Danish kroner and foreign ex- change as they can substantiate as having been imported upon entry in to Denma rk. Exports and Export Proceeds Gold is the only commodity that requires a license when exported to member countries of the EC. Except for certain items subject to strategic controls, licenses for exports to other des t ina t ions are required only for waste and scrap of certain metals and monetary gold. Export proceeds must be transferred to Denmark w i thout undue delay unless the National Bank permits otherwise. However, th is obligation does not apply to amoun ts wh ich are to be used to settle or to offset certain commercial and capital payments; otherwise, foreign exchange receipts must either be offered for sale to the Na t ional Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer w i thout undue delay, or kept in an account with an authorized exchange dealer for a max imum period of 30 days. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the National Bank per- mits otherwise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer w i thout undue delay, with exceptions s im i lar to those that apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may br ing in any amount of Danish bank notes and coin, foreign bank notes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. Capital Both inward and outward transfers of capital and all borrowing and lend ing between residents and nonresi- dents are subject to exchange control and may be restricted. Licensing practice w i th respect to residents of member countries of the EC is based on EC directives on capital movements, subject to certain exceptions, and licensing practice in respect of residents of the rest of the world as a ru le is s im i lar. Residents have an obligation to repatriate proceeds realized from the sale or liquidation of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, or to redeem upon ma tu r i ty, or to repurchase any Danish securities denominated exclusively in Danish kroner as well as the transferor's own bonds irrespective of denom ina t ion (provided these bonds are quoted on an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authorized stock exchange abroad). Residents may lend amounts not exceeding DKr 500,000 in a calendar year to subsidiary companies (direct investments of loan capital) or in the case of resident persons to a member of the resident's fam i ly. Contributions from a parent enter- prise to a branch may not be made as loans or grants but are treated as direct investment of equ i ty capital. Residents may buy foreign securities that do not repre- sent direct investments in foreign commercial or indus- trial enterprises,3 provided that these are acquired on the basis of a subscription right to shares or the like owned by the resident concerned, or that the resident furn ishes proof that he has sold foreign securities to a nonresident for a corresponding amount w i th in the last 12 mon ths. Residents may subscribe to or purchase foreign bonds with an original maturity above two years, listed on a stock exchange. The purchases have to be made through an authorized exchange dealer against cash, and sale or redemption does not entitle the seller to reinvest the proceeds in other kinds of foreign securities. No special permission is required for residents to make transfers abroad, w i th in certain l im i ts, in connec- tion with most direct investments or w i th private acqu is i- tions of real estate abroad. The limits are DKr 2 m i l l ion a year for each foreign enterprise for direct investments of equity capital.4 Private acquisition of real estate for noncommercial purposes and expenses related to bu i ld- ing and construction work on such property can be made without limitations. Direct investments abroad by resi- dents are normally approved in accordance w i th Den- mark's obligations as a member of the EC and the OECD. Authorized exchange dealers do not need special permission to grant loans to nonresidents for the f inanc- ing of payments to residents for purchases of Danish goods and services, provided normally that the loan is granted directly to the foreign purchaser; in those cases where the National Bank's approval is required, th is is generally given when the loans are customary in the trade concerned. Permission from the Na t ional Bank is required for certain other transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents. Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 100,000 for each person at the t ime of departure. The remaining l iqu id assets must be credited to an Emigrant Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year after departure, or earlier if the emigrant can show that he has taken up permanent residence abroad w i th the approval of the relevant foreign authorities. Inward direct investment in the form of equ i ty capital may be made without any special license if the invest- ment does not increase total direct foreign inves tment in the enterprise concerned by more than DKr 5 m i l l ion in each calendar year. However, investments in f irms that are engaged exclusively or largely in capital investments 3With effect from January 1, 1984, restrictions were lifted on purchases by residents of foreign shares listed at the stock exchange. 4A license is required, however, for inves tmen ts in f i rms wh i ch are engaged exclusively or largely in capital inves tmen ts or f in an c ing. DENMARK abroad or the f inanc ing of nonresidents con t inue to be subject to license. In add i t ion, a license is required if the investment is under taken by a foreign f irm in which a resident directly or indirectly owns an interest repre- senting a direct inves tmen t. Direct investments must be notified to the Na t ional Bank if they are made w i thout a special license. Inward direct investments in the form of loans w i th a ma tur i ty of at least five years also are exempt from special licenses. A contribution from a parent company to a branch may not be made as a loan or grant; it is treated as direct investment of equ i ty capital. Other direct investments by nonresidents require permis- sion from the exchange control authorities, which is granted liberally in accordance w i th Denmark's obliga- tions as a member of the EC and the OECD. The purchase by a nonresident of real property in Denmark no rma l ly requires a special license from the M in is try of Jus t ice; permission is u sua l ly granted readily where real estate is to be used for indus tr ial or s im i lar enterprises. The sale to nonresidents of Danish bonds listed on a stock exchange does not require a special license. Bonds denom ina ted on ly in Danish kroner may be resold to residents. Nonresidents may freely purchase or subscribe to shares that are quoted on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange, and may freely purchase shares of jo int stock and private companies not quoted on the stock exchange; they may also acquire private mortgage deeds w i th a residual ma tu r i ty of five years or more. Residents may as a general rule take up loans for up to five years from nonresidents to finance imports of commodities and services; they may also take up such loans to f inance the g ran t ing of credits for exports of commodities and services, provided that the credits are in conformity with normal commercial practice and that the m a tu r i ty of the loans does not at any t ime exceed the borrowers' credits to nonresidents in connection w i th exports of goods and services. Most business enterprises may borrow abroad w i thout restriction, provided that the ma tur i ty is at least five years. Residents may take up loans of up to DKr 500,000 a borrower in a calendar year from the borrower's fam i ly members. Foreign borrowing by mun ic ipa l i t ies and pub l ic u t i l i ty companies is subject to control by the appropriate department of the Government. Transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of all types of inves tmen ts and transfers of all other l iqu id funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents other than new emigrants are perm i t ted f ree ly, irrespective of when and how the or ig inal investment was acquired. Interest and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received from persons and firms who are nonresidents at the t ime of receipt may be paid freely, w i th the proviso that loans and credits obtained from a nonresident generally must not be amortized or repaid in f u ll more than 30 days before the amortization payment or repayment is due. Inheritances and g if ts to relatives may norma l ly be transferred to any coun try w i thout l im i ta t ion. Ind iv idual 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK payments above DKr 25,000 as gifts to persons other than relatives are subject to approval from the National Bank. Imports and exports of securities are subject to regulation, the details of which are established by the National Bank. Bona fide imports of Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are permitted. Exports of Danish and foreign securities owned by nonresidents are normally also permitted. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, w i th the principal exception of bonds denominated wholly or partly in foreign currencies, be sold freely to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with certain exceptions, be sold to residents only with the permission of the National Bank. Foreign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents, provided that the exchange control regulations are not circumvented. Authorized foreign exchange dealers' commercial net balances in accounts w i th foreign countries may be negative to the extent of an amount equal to the loans which the authorized dealer has granted to residents in foreign currency in conformity with the exchange control regulations and, for the purpose of f inanc ing Denmark's foreign trade, within a limit of DKr 3 million, but for banks and savings banks, the limit is up to 5 percent of net worth. A positive net commercial foreign position is, in principle, allowed only so long as it does not exceed DKr 2 million or, for banks and savings banks, 15 per- cent of the capital and reserves, whichever is higher. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold coin in Denmark; they may also import gold coin. Otherwise, residents other than the monetary authorities and autho- rized industrial and dental users are not allowed to acquire gold abroad. Imports and exports of gold normally require licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial and dental users. Imports of gold in bars or coin, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary au thor i t ies, are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 22 percent; domestic transactions in gold are also taxed at a rate of 22 percent. There is no customs du ty on imports of gold in bars or coin. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement March 21, The intervention limits of the Danish krone w i th in the EMS were redefined as follows, with respect to the Belgian f ranc, deutsche mark, French f ranc, Netherlands guilder, Irish pound, and Italian lira. Specified In terven t ion Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 Italian lire Danish Kroner Upper l im it Lower limit 18.543 371.40 121.11 329.63 1,147.35 0.6159 17.727 355.06 115.78 315.13 1,096.87 0.5463 Capital May 1. The l im it beyond which individual transac- tions and remittances would be subject to exchange regulations was raised from DKr 10,000 to DKr 25,000. In addition, residents were permitted to acquire not only bonds issued by international organizations but also bonds listed on a stock exchange. The limit on direct investments in Denmark by nonresidents was raised from DKr 2 m i l l ion to DKr 5 m i l l ion a calendar year, and that on direct inves tmen ts abroad by residents from DKr 500,000 to DKr 2 m i l l ion. Authorization was also granted for residents to borrow abroad without restric- t ion, provided that the ma tur i ty of each such loan was at least five years. Other changes simultaneously in- troduced included (a) abolition of the limit of DKr 250,000 on purchases of real estate abroad by residents for noncommercial purposes, and (b) an in- crease from DKr 200,000 to DKr 500,000 (a year) in the l im it on loans to and from fam i ly members, as well as loans by residents to subsidiary companies abroad. 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DJIBOUTI (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of D j ibou ti is the D j ibou ti Franc, wh ich is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at DF 177.721 = US$1. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are DF 176.84 and DF 179.48, respec- tively, per US$1. Buy ing and se l l ing rates for certain other currenciesl are set by local banks on the basis of cross rates for the U .S. dollar in in terna t ional markets. The posted rates are subject to commission charges of 1.5-6.0 percent set by the commercial banks, depending on the currency concerned. In add i t ion, there is a fixed commission amoun t ing to DF 300 for transfers in Djibouti francs, DF 500 (or US$3.00) for transfers in foreign currencies, and zero for transfers in French francs. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On September 19, 1980 D j ibou ti fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and no prescription of currency. The Djibouti franc is issued by the Djibouti Treasury, wh ich operates in th is respect as a currency board, issuing and redeeming the currency against receipts and payments of U .S. dollars. Prescription of Currency All settlements w i th Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, no prescription of currency re- quirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. 'Deutsche ma rk, French francs, pounds s te r l ing, and Swiss francs. D j ibou ti has a free trade zone in the port of Djibouti but the territory as a whole does not constitute a free zone. Formally, no customs duty is charged on imports but, in practice, fiscal du t ies are levied by means of indirect taxes (the general consump t ion tax). The rate of the general consumption tax is 26 percent for luxu ry goods and 23 percent for all other goods. In addition a tax of 5 percent is levied on the c . i . f. va lue of most nonfood imports. Certain commodities, inc lud ing alcoholic bev- erages, noncarbonated mineral water, petroleum prod- ucts, kha t, and tobacco, are subject to surtaxes at various rates. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Otherwise, there are v i r tua l ly no restrictions on exports, w i th the exception of the prohibition on exports of live an ima l s. Export proceeds may be retained. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No restrictions are imposed on payments for or proceeds from inv is ib les, except that payments must not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Capital No restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers, but payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Afr ica. Under the Inves tment Code of J u ne 5, 1975, enterprises established or expanded to undertake certain specific economic activities are eligible for various tax exemptions. Changes During 1983 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Dominica is the East Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at ECS2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were EC$2.6949 and ECS2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. There is a 1.5 percent tax on sales of foreign exchange. Dominica informed the Fund on December 13, 1979 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank area. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of territories participating in the East Caribbean Central Bank Agreement must be made in East Caribbean dollars; those w i th member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements w i th residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Foreign Currency Accounts Foreign Currency Accounts may be operated on ly w i th the permission of the Ministry of Finance; such permission is normally confined to major exporters and foreign nationals not ordinarily resident in Dominica. The accounts may be credited w i th foreign currencies obtained outside Dominica. Payments from these ac- counts require no approval but transactions are subject to the foreign exchange sales tax. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most other goods are imported under open general license, but ind iv idual licenses are required for manu fac tu res or 'The East Caribbean do l lar is also the currency of A n g u i l l a, A n t i g ua and Barbuda, Grenada, Montserrat, St. K i t ts -Nev is, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and Grenadines. 2The CARICOM countries are A n t i g ua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dom in ica, Grenada, Guyana, Jama ica, Montserrat, St. K i t ts- Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. 162 items which compete with local products, unless im- ported from CARICOM countries. Payments for authorized imports are permitted on presentation of documentary evidence of purchase to a bank. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Payments for Invisibles Under ex is t ing exchange control regulations all set- tlements overseas require exchange control approval. This is norma l ly granted for specified purposes and services, w i th in l im i ts. The basic travel allowance for each period of travel outside the area served by the ECCB is EC$15,000, subject to the presentation of evidence of intended travel. There is a 10 percent ad valorem tax on all travel tickets. In addition to the Basic Travel Allowance, bona fide business travelers may purchase foreign currency not exceeding the equivalent of EC$250 for each day outside Dominica, provided the total for the t r ip does not exceed EC$7,500. Persons going overseas for medical treatment may draw an amount additional to the basic allowance not exceeding EC$350 a day, up to a max imum of EC$20,000; such purchase is conditional upon the presentation of a medical certificate that the journey is necessary. Foreign currency may also be bought to meet educational expenses, inc lud ing accommodation, up to EC$15,000 in each academic year. Authority will normally be given for the payment of fees and subscriptions to recognized in s t i tu t ions and for such other educational items as newspapers. Outward remittances of cash gifts are allowed, up to ECS 1,000 a year to each recipient. Profits may be remitted overseas in fu ll provided that the Comptroller of In l and Revenue has prior knowledge of the transfer. Exports and Export Proceeds. Exports to South Africa are prohibited, and specific licenses are required for the export of certain goods to any des t ina t ion. The conversion of export proceeds to an East Caribbean Central Bank currency account is manda- tory, except where the exporter has a foreign currency account into wh ich the proceeds may be paid. Export duties are levied on bananas, fresh f ru i t, fru it juices, nu t s, essential o i l, and t imber. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in invis- ibles must be sold to a bank or paid into a foreign currency accoun t. There is no restriction on importation of bank notes and coins. Capital All outward transfers of capital or profits require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate located ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICA abroad is not norma l ly perm i t ted. Capital transfers, such as inheritances, to nonresidents require approval wh i ch normally is granted subject to the payment of any taxes due. Emigrants leaving Dominica to take up residence outside the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank area may transfer up to EC$20,000 (for a husband, w i f e, and children under 18 years) from the ir assets, subject to income tax clearance. Approval from the M in is t ry of Finance is required for remittance of amoun ts in excess of EC$20,000. Direct investment in Dominica by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and l iqu ida t ion proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment. The approval of the Ministry of Finance is required for nonresidents to borrow in Dominica. Any borrowing abroad by autho- rized dealers to f inance the ir domestic operations re- qu ires the approval of the M in i s t ry. Gold Residents are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for num i sma t ic purposes on ly. Small quan t i t ies of gold may be imported w i th the approval of the Ministry of Finance, for indus t r ial purposes on ly. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement July I. The tax on sales of foreign exchange was increased from 1 percent to 1.5 percent. October I. The East Caribbean Currency Au thor i ty was succeeded by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank, and Dom in ica (as well as An t igua and Barbuda, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines) con t inued to be a member of the ins t i tu t ion. 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Dominican Republic is the Dominican Peso. The Dominican Republic operates a dual exchange market, consisting of an official exchange market in which transactions are conducted at an exchange rate of RD$1 = US$1, and a parallel market in which all specified transactions not eligible for the official exchange market are conducted at a freely determined rate. Other implicit rates arise from (a) the requirement of a fu l ly prepaid letter of credit for most imports, and (b) the levying of a tax on remittances of profits from foreign investments, inc lud ing a surtax on this tax. Exchange transactions in the official exchange market in U.S. dollars between the Central Bank and other banks take place at RD$1 = US$1 plus a commission of !/32 of 1 percent. Commercial banks charge commissions of !/4 of 1 percent (buying) and !/2 of 1 percent (selling) on transactions conducted at the off ic ial exchange rate of RD$1 = US$1; an additional 1 percent commission is levied on payments by letter of credit. Foreign exchange operations are currently conducted in the parallel market through commercial banks and exchange banks. The main sources of demand for foreign exchange in the parallel market are (a) import payments for which the Central Bank does not provide foreign exchange at the official rate (about 50 percent of import payments were made in the parallel market in 1983); (b) other foreign exchange payments not ap- proved by the Central Bank, such as foreign travel of Dominican residents; and (c) capital ou tf low. The main sources of supply in this market are (a) inward remit- tances from Dominicans living abroad; (b) tourist re- ceipts; (c) possible overinvoicing of imports especially when import duties are low; (d) possible underinvoicing of some exports; (e) capital inflows not transacted through the banking system; and (f) foreign exchange refunds made by the Central Bank to nontraditional exporters. Foreign Currency Accounts Under a Monetary Board resolution of August 24, 1982 commercial banks are authorized to open two types of foreign exchange accounts for their c l ien t s .l One of these is a noninterest-bearing dollar account, from wh ich funds can be drawn to make payments for current transactions approved by the Central Bank. The other type of account yields interest at a rate announced periodically by the Central Bank but not more than 1 percentage point below the federal funds rate in the 'Since the end of 1971, interested na tural and ju r id ical persons could be authorized directly by the Monetary Board to open accounts denominated in U.S. dollars in the Dominican Repub l ic 's bank ing system. Balances in such accounts could be used freely to make payments abroad. 164 Un i ted States; such an account is subject to a m in imum deposit requirement of US$25,000. Both types of ac- counts are subject to a 100 percent reserve requirement. Beg inn ing in mid-November 1983, exchange banks have been established and empowered to purchase and sell foreign exchange in the parallel market, and the operation of exchange houses has been prohibited. (Commercial banks were permitted to continue transac- tions in the parallel market un t il December 31, 1983 but their sales of foreign exchange in this market were limited to transactions involving payments of goods and services.) Beg inn ing also in mid-November 1983 the Central Bank ma in ta ins a stabilization exchange fund at the Reserve Bank, whereby the latter may intervene in the parallel market to prevent erratic fluctuation of the exchange rate in the parallel market. Administration of Control Exchange and trade control policy is determined by the Monetary Board, and foreign exchange control is administered by the Central Bank. Export controls are administered by the Dominican Center for Export Pro- motion (CEDOPEX). Prescription of Currency Imports from the Un i ted States that are financed by the U .S. Agency for International Development must be made under special letters of credit. Certain import commissions must be paid in local currency only. Settlements w i th Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Mexico, and Venezuela may be made through special accounts established under recip- rocal credit agreements w i th in the framework of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Import payments in currencies other than the U .S. dollar must be made through letters of credit. Otherwise, no obliga- tions are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents regarding the currency to be used for payments to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports may be classified in four categories: (a) fuel imports of the oil refinery and the State Electricity Corporation, for wh ich the Central Bank sells foreign exchange at the off ic ial exchange rate in unrestricted amounts; (b) imports for wh ich the Central Bank sells foreign exchange at the official exchange rate only up to specified annual quotas; (c) imports for which the Central Bank does not sell foreign exchange; and (d) imports that are prohibited, either permanently or for temporary periods of time. In principle, except for prohibited imports, all import payments can be made w i th foreign exchange purchased in the parallel market. All payments for imports settled with foreign ex- change at the official rate require the approval of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Central Bank. Import settlements against collection or by draft must be denominated in U .S. dollars. Prepayment of letters of credit is required for certain imports. The Monetary Board establishes annual foreign exchange quotas for certain raw material and inputs by the state agency INESPRE; in 1983, these were set to be equal to 45 percent of the average annual import level of 1979 and 1980. The importation of vehicles was prohibited for one year on June 11, 1981. This prohibition was rein- troduced on August 18, 1982, and, in add i t ion, imports of certain nonessential goods as such various foodstuff products, capital goods, and household electronic prod- ucts, were prohibited also for one year. Imports of vehicles are subject to an annual quota of US$25 m i l l ion, for which payment is to be settled through the parallel market. In principle, "nominal du ty rates" range from a minimum of 40 percent to almost 900 percent for imports of malted beverages. Most of the nom inal du ty rates at the three- and four-digit level of the tariff schedule range between 40 percent and 75 percent. However, a number of imports were exempted from the payment of these nominal duties. An internal consumption tax of 20 percent ad valorem, and a 4 percent surcharge on the total amount of all customs charges are applied on all imports subject to the m in imum du ty of 20 percent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles at the off ic ial exchange rate require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Foreign exchange at the official rate is sold on ly for a limited number of payments for current invisibles, and only for limited amounts. Nonresident foreign nationals working in the Dominican Republic in industries and firms that contribute to the country's economic devel- opment may remit abroad up to 40 percent of their incomes, at the official exchange rate, subject to a l im it of US$1,000 a month. Nonresident foreign nationals working for the Government are not subject to these limits, and nonresident foreign nationals working on the installation of new manu fac tu r ing plants have f u ll remit- tance rights at the official exchange rate. For graduate education abroad, exchange requests for mon th ly ma in- tenance allowances of up to US$320 are approved for students in the United States, and up to US$350 for students in Europe; an allowance of US$1,000 each semester is granted for the payment of tuition charges. Purchases of foreign exchange for medical treatment abroad are subject to negotiation w i th the Central Bank but cannot exceed US$5,000 in each case. Except for official travel, the Central Bank does not sell foreign exchange at the official exchange rate for travel abroad. Payments for invisible transactions not approved by the Central Bank, or in excess of the l im i ts specified, can be made through the parallel market; such transactions include notably expenses for tourist and business travel DOMINICAN REPUBLIC abroad, insurance premiums, remittances for family l iv ing expenses, current earnings for f i lm rentals, and royalties related to f i lms. Applications for foreign exchange for interest and amortization payments on loans registered with the Central Bank are approved in accordance with the terms of the contract. The interest rate on foreign financing cannot be more than 3 percentage points above the U.S. pr ime rate when the foreign f inanc ing originates in the Un i ted States, or above the LIBOR when the foreign f inanc ing originates in the Eurodollar market. Transfers of profits and dividends on foreign investment, at the official exchange rate, may be made only when the investment has been registered with the Central Bank. Profit remittances cannot dur ing a year exceed the limit of 25 percent of the net value of original and additional investments p lus reinvestments, m inus repatriation. Profit remittances from foreign investments are subject to a tax of 18 percent and to a surtax of 3 percent on the amount of the tax. Beg inn ing from October 29, 1983, nonresident aliens traveling to the Dominican Republic by air are required to possess a valid round trip ticket purchased in the country of departure; this is intended to prevent them from ob ta in ing return air tickets with foreign exchange from the Dominican Republic's official foreign ex- change market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of 18 categories were prohibited, including mostly food products and certain animal species whose hun t ing is prohibited for conservation purposes. Export licenses are required for 36 product categories, mainly sugar, molasses, coffee, and textile products. Exports of sugar and sugar by-products are subject to prior authori- zation by a special committee formed by the Secretary of Finance, the Governor of the Central Bank, and the Executive Director of the National Sugar Institute ( INAZUCAR ). W i th in two working days of receiving payments, exporters must surrender to the Central Bank, through the commercial banks, foreign exchange equal to 100 percent of the value of their exports. For the purposes of exchange surrender, declared export prices must equal or exceed the m in imum export prices established by CEDOPEX for certain exports. Firms operating in industrial free zones are exempted from the exchange surrender requirements, and are required to convert only the foreign exchange which is needed to cover local costs and taxes. In addition, under the Export Incentives Law of November 16, 1979 (Law No. 69), receipts from specified nontraditional exports (see be- low) may be exempted partially from the surrender requ irement at the official exchange rate. Exporters may not extend credit to foreign buyers for more than 90 days from the date of shipment without authorization by the Central Bank. Nontraditional exporters are entitled to a refund of a percentage of the import taxes paid on raw materials or 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC component parts used in the manu fac tu re of goods subse- quently exported; this percentage is 90 percent on ex- ports containing only imported inputs, 95 percent on exports containing domestic inpu ts, and 100 percent on exports produced in the industrial free trade zone .2 Exporters are also eligible for a refund of 95 percent of any internal tax levied on locally manufactured goods which are exported. Law No. 69, wh ich came into effect in 1980, aims to promote nontraditional exports by partially exempting exporters from the surrender requirements at the off ic ial exchange rate. This law also provides for the issuance of tax credit certificates (certificados de abono tributario— CATs) for a value not exceeding 15 percent of the f .o .b. or c . i .f. value of exports; the percentage can be up to 25 percent when exports contain a h igh degree of domestic agricultural inpu ts. The CATs are, in pr inc ip le, fu l ly negotiable and can be used for the payment of taxes or other obligations to the Government. (Only a l im i ted number of CATs have, however, been issued.) In addition, Law No. 69 regulates the system of temporary admission for imports, under wh ich duties are waived for any imports used in the manu fac tu re of non trad i t ional products to be exported w i th in a year. Nontraditional exporters wan t ing to benefit from the partial waiver of the surrender requirement must apply to CEDOPEX, which forwards applications hav ing its support to the Monetary Board for approval. Re funds of surren- dered foreign exchange are made in approved cases w i th in two working days of the surrender. The exemptions from surrender requirements at the official exchange rate for nontraditional exports vary between 20 percent and 100 percent. The exemption level is 100 percent for nontraditional agr icu l tural prod- ucts and 85 percent for indus t r ial products. Beginning from November 17, 1983, an export compensation fund operates in place of the exchange certificate scheme wh ich was ins t i tu ted in November 1982 as an incentive to agr icu l tural products (sugar, molasses, coffee, cocoa, and tobacco). Exporters pre- viously eligible for exchange certificates are e l ig ib le for financial benefits in local currency paid out of the compensation fund on the basis of percentages estab- lished for the previous (exchange certificate) system. A six-month average of the parallel market exchange rate is used as the basis for calculating the local currency va lue of the financial incentive. Foreign exchange corre- sponding to the incentive payments is transferred to the Reserve Bank by the Central Bank for sale in the parallel market. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from inv is ib les must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the commercial banks. The import of Dominican banknotes and coin is prohibited. 2Nontraditional exporters who qu a l i fy under the temporary import regime of Law No. 69 are also 100 percent exempted from the payment of import duties. 166 Capital There are no restrictions on the inward movement of capital by e i ther residents or nonresidents. However, direct foreign inves tment is regulated by Law No. 861 of J u ly 19, 1978, wh i ch created a Directorate of Foreign Inves tment to approve direct inves tment requests. Such investments must be registered w i th the Central Bank in local currency for the remittance of d iv idends through the off ic ial exchange market to be permitted for up to an annual m ax imum of 25 percent of the registered value. Foreign debt can be contracted directly by the Central Government, subject to congressional authorization. According to Law No. 251 of 1964, new loans by other pub l ic and private en t i t ies require Monetary Board au tho r iza t ion to ensure the provision of official foreign exchange for servicing the loans. According to a set of criteria established by the Monetary Board on Novem- ber 19, 1981, priority in the approval of new loans is given to foreign borrowing for export, import substitu- t ion, and social projects such as housing and education. Total interest charges on foreign loans are not allowed to exceed the U .S. prime rate or the LIBOR by more than 3 percent. There are also m i n im um ma tur i ty require- ments according to the type of f inanc ing. App l ica t ions to the Central Bank by residents to transfer capital abroad through the official exchange market for por tfo l io investments, the purchase of real estate, etc. are norma l ly not approved. But there are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange that Dom in ican residents can purchase in the parallel market. Gold Residents may purchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins in the Dom in ican Repub l ic for num isma t ic purposes. With th is exception, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in the Dom in ican Repub l ic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and indus t r ial users. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement November 17. The Central Bank opened a stabiliza- t ion exchange fund in the Reserve Bank as a means of enab l ing the latter to intervene in the parallel market on behalf of the former to prevent erratic fluctuations of the parallel exchange rate. November 18. The Monetary Board issued a decree l im i t ing purchases and sales of foreign exchange in the parallel market to exchange banks authorized by the Central Bank. (Commercial banks were permitted to con t inue to operate in the parallel market until December 31, 1983, but the ir sales of foreign exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in the market were limited to transactions involving payments for goods and services from abroad.) Imports and Import Payments March 30. The Central Bank excluded a wide range of products from the list of import items eligible for foreign exchange at the off ic ial market rate. June 14. The Central Bank excluded soybeans and soybean cake from the list of import items eligible for foreign exchange at the official market rate. July 14. The Central Bank authorized the sale of foreign exchange at the off ic ial market rate for up to 77 percent of the value of machinery and equ ipment imports for tourist projects financed by the tourist promotion agency (!NFRATUR) w i th f inanc ial assistance from the World Bank. In add i t ion, it was decided that tourism projects financed w i th f inanc ial assistance from international ins t i tu t ions would be eligible for foreign exchange at the official market rate up to a percentage of their required imports equal to the ratio of the share of the external f inanc ing of these ins t i tu t ions to the total value of the financed projects. September 8. The Central Bank excluded corn from the list of imports eligible for foreign exchange at the official market rate. November 30. The prohibition on the importation of motor vehicles was temporarily l if ted, and a quota of US$25 million of imports was established; payments for such imports were required to be made through the parallel market. Payments for Invisibles March 30. The Central Bank removed payments of insurance prem iums from the list of payment items eligible for foreign exchange at the off ic ial foreign exchange. October 29. In a move to discourage access to the official foreign exchange market, the Dominican Re- public Immigration Authority issued instructions to the airline companies operating in the country to require nonresident alients boarding f l igh ts to the Dom in ican Republic to have in their possession valid round trip tickets purchased in the country of departure. November 77. The Central Bank introduced a regula- tion specifying that drawings on U .S. dollar accounts held by ind iv idua ls and corporations at the commercial banks should be only for payment for imports of goods and services, and not for remittances abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds June 15. The Central Bank included cocoa l iquo r, o i l, and cake in the list of export items entitled to foreign exchange certificates. July 14. Central bank authorization was granted for the sale of domestically mined gold for industrial activities, through an affiliate of the Rosario M in ing Company operating in a free trade zone. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC October 18. The Central Bank authorized the issue of foreign exchange certificates amounting to 10 percent of va lue, for exports of gold, silver, and dore. November 17. In place of the system of foreign exchange certificates, the Central Bank instituted an export compensation f u n d, to be fed from earnings on the exchange stabilization accounts, and used for cash paymen ts in domestic currency to exporters of sugar, molasses, coffee, cocoa and cocoa derivative products, and tobacco. Proceeds from Invisibles March 30. The Central Bank authorized the issue of foreign exchange certificates to such corporate entities as had insurance payments for risks covered abroad and had surrendered the foreign exchange to the Central Bank; the certificates entitled the bearers to acquire foreign exchange at the official market rate for payments eligible to be effected through this market, inc lud ing reinsurance p rem iums. May 5. The Central Bank granted authorization for charges on credit cards of foreign travelers visiting the country to be billed in Dominican pesos and to be converted at the exchange rate established for the parallel market by the Exchange Commission. June 16. The Central Bank authorized the issue of foreign exchange certificates up to 100 percent of value for those surrendering foreign exchange proceeds from tourism to the Central Bank. September 8. The Central Bank imposed a surrender requirement of US$20,000 an ins t i tu t ion and US$6 a registered student on those universities receiving foreign exchange as payment for tu i t ion and fees from foreign students. September 8. The Central Bank granted authorization for the commercial banks to open an exchange rate w indow in airports, ports, and hotels and operate in the parallel market at the rate set by the Exchange Commission. Capital July 13. The Central Bank granted authorization for nonbank f inanc ial institutions to receive U.S. dollar deposits from Dominican citizens l iv ing abroad. July 14. The Central Bank authorized the issuance of foreign exchange certificates to foreigners purchasing real estate for tourist development projects, provided that they surrendered the foreign exchange to the Central Bank and opted not to register the invested funds w i th the Central Bank as foreign investment. Gold July 14. The Central Bank authorized the sale of domestically m ined gold for indus tr ial activities, through an aff i l ia te of the Rosario M in ing Company operating in a free trade zone. 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ecuador is the Ecuadoran Sucre. There are two exchange markets, the off ic ial market and the free market. In the off ic ial market, the Central Bank of Ecuador operates a system under wh ich the exchange rate is adjusted at frequent intervals by small un i ts amoun t ing to S/. 0.05 per US$1 da i ly; on December 31, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates in this market were S/. 54.10 and S/. 55.18 per US$1, respectively. The buy ing and selling rates for other currenc ies' are off ic ia l ly quoted on the basis of da i ly buy ing and se l l ing rates against the U .S. dollar in foreign markets. Most export proceeds, certain import paymen ts, certain set- tlements of invisibles, government and pub l ic sector transactions, and specified capital transactions of the private sector are negotiated in the o f f ic ial marke t. W i th certain exceptions all other transactions are conducted in the free market, in wh ich the exchange rate f luc tua tes but where the Central Bank may intervene from t ime to t ime. The free market buy ing and selling rates on December 31, 1983 were S/. 86.88 and S/. 88.75, respectively, per US$1. A few transactions (such as payments for pr in ted material) may be made in either of the two markets. The sales and purchases of foreign exchange by oil companies are subject to a service charge of S/. 0.25 per US$1. Loan capital from in terna t ional agencies and foreign governments to the Government and pub l ic ins t i tu t ions is converted at the off ic ial rate p reva i l ing on the disbursement date. External loans are subject to a tax that varies between 0.5 percent and 2 percent for ma tur i t ies of 6 mon ths to 24 months. Exempted from th is tax are (1) loans of more than 24 months; (2) loans from foreign governments and international agencies; (3) loans to the pub l ic sector; and (4) suppliers' credits invo lv ing no in f low of foreign exchange. An arrangement for ref inanc ing specified private external debt involves d ifferent imp l ic it exchange rates arising from the imposition of changes over the off ic ial rate to compensate for possible exchange losses. Ecuador fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, w i th effect from August 31, 1970. Administration of Control The Monetary Board has au thor i ty to sh i ft transactions between the two exchange markets and has extensive powers w i th respect to import policy. The off ic ial exchange market is under the control and superv is ion of the Central Bank, wh ich also issues import and export 'A rg en t ine pesos, Au s t ra l ian dollars, Au s t r ian sch i l l ing s, Be lg ian francs, Braz i l ian cruzeiros, Canad ian dollars, Dan ish kroner, deu tsche mark, French francs, I t a l i an l i re, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lde r s, Norwegian kroner, pounds s te r l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 168 licenses and registers foreign capital. Imports entering the country as part of a direct investment and imports by foreign enterprises wh ich have contracts w i th the Gov- e rnment require prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in is t ry of Indu s t ry, Commerce, and Integration (MICEI) and, when exemptions from fiscal charges are sought, by the M in is t ry of Finance. Foreign investment in Ecuador is supervised by the MICEI. Prescription of Currency Most se t t lemen ts w i th the German Democratic Re- pub l i c, Hunga ry, Poland, and Roman ia take place through bilateral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and A rgen t ina, Bo l iv ia, Braz i l, Ch i le, Colombia, the Dom in ican Repub l ic, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, and Venezue la must be made through accounts ma in ta ined w i th each other by the Central Bank of Ecuador and the other central banks concerned, w i th in the framework of the mu l t i l a t e r al clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Ex- change proceeds from other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Whenever possible, import paymen ts must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided in to two categories: List I, cons is t ing of essential goods (Group A) and semiessential goods (Group B), and List II, consisting of less essential and l u x u ry goods. All goods not inc luded in these two lists are proh ib i ted. M a in ly for reasons of indus t r ial protection, certain imports require prior au thor iza t ion from government m in is tr ies or agencies. Prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports, w i th the fo l low ing exceptions: books, newspa- pers, periodicals, and pr in ted or recorded music may be imported freely w i thout a license against payment through the free market; if the importer applies for a license, exchange w i ll be made ava i lab le at the official rate but on ly when the items are for educational or sc ien t i f ic purposes. These imports are subject to pay- ment of the applicable taxes and charges regardless of th e ir purpose. Med ic ines and spare parts for mach inery and au tomo t ive vehicles are free of license when valued at US$500 f .o .b. or less, but all applicable charges and taxes must be paid on them. In add i t ion, the State Petroleum Corporation may import supplies, materials, and equ ipment necessary for the conduct of its business d u r i ng emergency s i tua t ions w i thout ob ta in ing a prior import license. A few goods may be imported on ly from member countries of the LAI A, and some on ly from Paraguay. W i th these exceptions, import licenses are issued freely irrespective of the origin of the goods, provided that the appropriate import taxes ( inc lud ing import surcharges) have been pa id, that the required ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution prepayment of 80 percent of import du t ies has been made, that an advance deposit has been pa id, that prior ministerial authorization (where app l icab le) has been obtained, that a credit arrangement w i th a m i n im um maturity of 180 days has been concluded w i th an ou ts ide party, and that a certificate is subm i t t ed show ing that insurance has been arranged in Ecuador. The List I license au toma t ica l ly en t i t les the ho lder to obtain exchange at the o f f ic ial rate to cover the c. & f. value of the import upon presentation of the s h i p p i ng documents. Beg inn ing from March 1983, L ist II imports are no longer en t i t led to o f f ic ial foreign exchange. Import licenses wh ich do not en t i t le the importer to foreign exchange at the o f f ic ial rate (permisos de importation no reembolsables) may be issued for goods financed from the proceeds of certain in te rna t ional loans, provided that these have been registered at the Cen tral Bank, but such licenses are not requ i red to import the goods concerned. Many imports are subject to advance deposit requ i re- men ts .2 The deposit must be ma in ta ined for 180 days for List I imports; for imports of L ist II i tems, the re ten t ion period is 270 days. The deposit is 25 percent of the c . i . f. value for goods on L ist II, 10 percent for goods on List I-B, and no deposit is required for goods on L ist I- A. All imports are subject to a tax of 6 percent lev ied on commercial t ransac t ions. Furthermore, all goods are subject to a service charge of 1 percent of the c . i . f. va lue, un less they represent g i f ts or fore ign loans. W i th certain exemp t ion s, goods on List II are subject to an import surcharge of 30 percent ad va lo rem. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for paymen ts in respect of certain cu r rent invisibles may be obtained from the Central Bank at the official rate. These transac t ions in inv i s ib l es are, in pr inc ip le, l im i ted to interest on fore ign loans that have been registered at the Cen tral B a n k, d iv id ends and profits on foreign inve s tmen ts registered at the Central Bank (provided the foreign exchange was sold at the Central Bank ), paymen ts by the Gove rnment and p u b l ic entities, and the necessary expenses of Ecuadorans s tudy ing at un ive r s i t ies abroad. An arrangement for re f inanc ing specified private ex ternal debt invo lves d i f fe rent imp l ied exchange rates a r i s ing from the impos i- tion of changes over the o f f ic ial rate to compensate for possible exchange losses. These rates are app l icab le to ref inanc ing of pr iva te ex te rnal credits contracted by the domestic f inanc ial system au thor ized by the Cen tral Bank before May 14, 1982, and for interest on long - te rm external credits au thor ized by the Cen tral B ank before May 14, 1982, even if the proceeds were sold in the free market. Foreign exchange for payment of interests on private sector loans of over 18 mon ths as we ll as for repayment of supp l ie rs' credits may be ob ta ined at the Central B ank, provided that the loans have been regis- 2The advance impo rt depos it r e q u i r em e nt has been abo l i sh ed w i th e f fect from J a n u a ry 1, 1984. ECUADOR tered at the Cen tral Bank; beyond th i s, foreign exchange for other pr iva te sector interest paymen ts must be purchased in the free ma rke t. There is no ce i l ing for in terest p aym en ts by the p u b l ic sector. W i th respect to loans to pe t ro leum compan ies, in teres t, comm iss ion, and other f i n a n c i al charges on fore ign loans may not exceed the e q u i v a l e nt of 2 percent above the rates of interest of the creditor coun t ry and annual amor t iza t ion may not exceed the sum of und i s t r ibu ted prof i ts, depreciation of f ixed assets and l iqu ida ted assets, and any variation in wo rk ing cap i ta l. There are also l im i ts on student allow- ances and "other" inv i s ib l es e l ig ib le for transaction at the o f f i c i al rate, but amoun ts in excess of these l im i ts may be purchased in the free ma rke t. Most o ther paymen ts for current inv is ib les must be settled in the free ma rket and are unres tr ic ted. There are no l im i t a t i o ns on the amoun ts of domestic and foreign bank notes that trave lers may take ou t. Residents t r av e l ing abroad by air mu st pay a tax of S/. 602 for each e x it v i sa. A i r l i ne t icke ts for fore ign travel are taxed at 10 pe rcen t, and t icke ts for travel by sh ip are subject to tax at the rate of 8 percent for departure from Ecuador and 4 percent for the re tu rn t r ip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports requ i re l icenses to ensure required sur- render of the exchange proceeds to the Central Bank; l icenses are issued f ree ly, subject to guarantee. Ten percent of t rad i t ional non -o il exports (bananas, coffee beans, cocoa beans, and sugar) and 70 percent of non t rad i t ional non -o il exports are exempt from the surrender r equ i r em en t. Export proceeds must be surren- dered not la ter th an 360 days after sh ipment for manufac- tured goods, 45 days for coffee beans, bananas, and unprocessed seafood produc ts, and 75 days for other products; howeve r, the Cen tral Bank may extend these per iods. No surrender is requ ired for exports effected under licensed bar ter t ransac t ions; however, barter trans- ac t ions requ i re a prior contract. M i n im um reference prices are es tab l ished for exports of bananas, coffee, cacao, and s em i f in i sh ed products of cacao to help ensure the f u ll surrender of the exchange proceeds. Reference prices are also es tab l ished for exports of crude petroleum based on the sales contracts; these serve as the basis for the ca lcu la t ion of taxes, roya l t ies, etc. Certain exports requ i re p r ior au tho r iza t ion of specified m in is t r ies. Cer- t a in commod i t ies are subject to export taxes, payable at the t ime the export l icense is received, w i th the excep- t ion of the export tax on coffee, wh ich is payable w i th in one mon th of the receipt of the export license. Exports of coffee and cocoa are subject to a s l id ing-sca le tax in re la t ion to in te rna t ional prices; the tax ranges up to 13 percent for washed coffee, 20 percent for raw coffee, and 15 percent for cocoa. Proceeds from Invisibles Rece ip ts from spec if ied inv i s ib l es mu st be sold to the Cen tral B ank at the o f f i c i al rate. A ll other receipts, 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR inc lud ing those from travelers, may be sold in the free market. Travelers may br ing in any amount of foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital Capital may free ly enter or leave the country th rough the free marke t. Most borrowing abroad is subject to an exchange tax rang ing from 0.5 percent to 2 percent (see section on Exchange A r rangemen t, above). All foreign inves tmen ts in Ecuador must be registered w i th the Central Bank. New inves tmen ts requ ire the prior au thor iza t ion of the M in is t ry of Indu s t ry, Com- merce, and In tegra t ion. In the case of inves tmen ts for wh ich exchange was sold to cover local costs, the investor must show that the exchange was sold to the Central Bank in order to be en t i t led to foreign exchange at the off ic ial rate for remittances of interest, prof i ts, d iv idends, and amor t iza t ion. For foreign cap i tal en te r ing in the form of mach inery and equ ipmen t, the investor must show that the merchandise has been cleared th rough customs and that it took the form of a ''nonre im- bursable" import. Add i t iona l ly, the investor must pre- sent to the Central Bank the certification from the appropriate m in is t ry that the declared va lue conforms to the actual va lue of the machinery and equ ipmen t. The Exchange Department of the Central Bank must subm it a recommendation to the General Management of the Central Bank w i th in 30 days from receipt of the request for registration in the off ic ial market and all per t inent documentation. Thereafter, tak ing into account the in ter- ests of the Ecuadoran economy and pr ior i t ies established in the coun t ry 's development p lans, the General Man- agement of the Central Bank must approve or deny the registration for foreign exchange purposes w i t h in an add i t ional 30 days. In certain cases, where all documen- tation has been subm i t ted, the Central Bank can provi- s iona l ly register the inves tment for a period of up to 90 days. S im i la r ly, loans in foreign exchange granted to the Government or to off ic ial entities must be registered for foreign exchange purposes w i th the Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank; for all foreign loans, registra- tion is mandatory for statistical purposes. In the case of short-term supp l iers' credits, no special registration procedure is requ ired. Foreign na t iona ls are proh ib i ted from own ing rural properties and from own ing or operating m in ing industries w i th in 30 miles of Ecuador's coastline or borders. The participation of fore ign cap i tal as a direct inves tment in the f inanc ial and insurance sectors is restricted. The M in i s t ry of Indu s t ry, Com- merce, and Integration does not au thor ize direct fore ign inves tment for es tab l ish ing pub l ic i ty f i rm s, commercial broadcasting stations, television stations, newspapers, and magaz ines. Foreign exchange may be obtained at the o f f ic ial rate for the w i thd rawal of foreign inves tment from Ecuador f ive years after the date of reg is tra t ion, on the bas is of a schedule agreed by the Central B ank. Profits ac- cumu la ted in previous years may be repatriated also on 170 the basis of a schedu le agreed by the Central Bank for inves tmen ts for wh ich the registration procedure for fore ign exchange purposes has been completed. For investments registered on a provisional basis, profits may not be repatriated through the official market. Profit remittances may not exceed the l im it (20 percent a year) specified in the Foreign Inves tment Code of the Andean Pact. Residents who are private ind iv idua ls are not granted o f f ic ial foreign exchange to purchase securities or real estate abroad. Commercial banks are authorized to m a in t a in accounts w i th correspondent banks abroad in conver t ib le currenc ies. Gold Res iden ts other than the Central Bank may export gold on ly in the form of filigree wo rk, the gold content of wh i ch does not represent more than 25 percent of its market va lue. Imports of monetary gold are reserved for the Cen tral B ank; such imports are treated as List I impor ts, payable th rough the off ic ial market. Imports of nonmone ta ry gold in bars may be made by the Central Bank and are also treated as List I imports eligible for the o f f ic ial rate. Gold bars are exempt from import du ty, while the du ty on semiworked gold is 40 percent ad va lorem; semiworked gold is treated as a List II import. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement March 18. The Central Bank of Ecuador was autho- rized to intervene in the free exchange market to purchase foreign exchange in an amount up to 30 percent of the f . o . b. va lue of merchandise (other than petroleum and its der iva t ives, bananas, coffee beans, cocoa, and suga r ), and to sell fore ign exchange to cover the c. & f. va lue of imports of List II goods (Monetary Board Regu la t ion No. 064-83). March 19. The o f f ic ial exchange rate was established at S/. 42 = US$1 or its equ iva lent in other currencies. In add i t ion, it was announced tha t, beg inn ing from March 23, 1983, the rate (in terms of sucre per US$1) wou ld increase by S/. 0.04 per U .S. do l lar, and the buy- ing rate wou ld be the o f f ic ial rate wh i le the se l l ing rate wou ld be 2 percent above the b u y i ng rate, rounded to the nearest cent (Mone tary Board Regulation No. 065-83). March 19. It was decided that the following transac- t ions shou ld be traded at the off ic ial exchange rate: proceeds from exports of petroleum and its derivatives, bananas, coffee, cocoa, and suga r, as we ll as 70 percent of the proceeds from exports of other products; foreign inve s tment in f low th rough o f f ic ial channe ls; and external p r iva te credits w i th ma tu r i t ies longer than one year au thor ized and registered by the Central Bank of Ecuador. In add i t ion, fore ign exchange would be sold at the o f f ic ial exchange rate for paymen ts of the c. & f. va lue of imports of List I goods, amortization and interest paymen ts on ex ternal pub l ic as well as pri- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution vate debt, and foreign exchange allowance for Ecua- doran students abroad (Monetary Board Regulation No. 066-83). June 20. It was announced tha t, b eg inn ing from June 21, 1983 the off ic ial exchange rate in terms of u n i ts of sucre per US$1 wou ld increase each calendar day by S/. 0.05 per U .S. dollar, or its equ iva lent in other currencies (Monetary Board Regulation No. 100-83). June 20. It was decided that valuation of import duties should be done by tak ing as reference for each calendar month the off ic ial exchange rate ca lcu la ted for the 20th day of the month in question on the basis of the projected daily rate of deva lua t ion (Mone tary Board Regulation No. 102-83). June 21. A service charge of S/. 0.25 per U . S. dollar was levied on petroleum-related purchases and sales of foreign exchange (at the o f f ic ial exchange rate) by the Central Bank of Ecuador (Monetary Board Regu la t ion No, 103-83). October 24. A tax of 1 percent for the benefit of Ecuadoran universities and po ly techn ic schools was levied on sales of foreign exchange on the free market (Monetary Board Decree No. 145). Imports and Import Payments January 7. Imports of goods o r ig ina t ing in member countries of the Cartagena Agreement were exempted from the import prohibitions (Regulation Nos. 026 and 027 of November 16, 1982, Monetary Board Regulation No. 038-83). February 8. Imports of capital goods by the mass media in Ecuador (the wr i t ten press, radio, and te lev i- sion) were exempted from the import p roh ib i t ions (Monetary Board Regulation No. 040-83). February 8. Imports of fixed cap i tal goods contracted before November 16, 1982 were exempted from the import prohibitions (Monetary Board Regulation No. 041-83). In addition, imports of capital goods for use in the hydrocarbon indus try were also exempted from the import proh ib i t ions (Monetary Board Regu la- tion No. 042-83). March 1. Imports of goods o r ig ina t ing in and pro- ceeding from the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA) were exempted from the import prohibitions (Monetary Board Regulation No. 050-83). March 8. It was announced that the Central Bank of Ecuador wou ld make foreign exchange ava i lab le at the official exchange rate to cover the f . o . b. va lue of imports including foreign charges stated in the b i ll of lad ing (Monetary Board Regulation No. 056-83). March 8. The m in imum payment term for at least 80 percent of the f .o .b. value of all imports not previously subject to term payments was fixed at 120 days or more (Monetary Board Regu la t ion No. 058-83). March 17. A monetary s tab i l iza t ion surcharge of 5 percent ad valorem was levied on the c . i . f. v a lue of imports under Section A of List I, 8 percent for those under Section B of List I, and 15 percent for List II imports (Law on the Economic Regulation and Control ECUADOR of Public Expenditure, Article 7, published in Official Register No. 453 of March 17, 1983). March 18. The prior deposit requ iremen ts for the c . i . f. va lue of the d i f fe rent categories of imports were f ixed as fo l lows (Mone tary Board Regu la t ion No. 063-83): List I I II Deposit Section A B Deposit Rate ( c . i . f. va lue) 0 percent 20 percent 50 percent Terms 180 days 270 days March 19. Amendments were made in the classifica- tion of 77 tar iff items covering goods under Sections A and B of L ist I imports (Mone tary Board Regu la t ion No. 069-83). April 5. Items for medical and veterinary use im- ported by the M in i s t r ies of H e a l th, or Ag r i cu l tu re and Livestock through the Pan Ame r ican Hea l th Organiza- tion were exempted from the term payment requ iremen ts (Monetary Board Regulation No. 070-83). April 21. Imports of permitted goods for public and private development projects, financed through external credits granted by o f f ic ial in te rna t ional f inanc ial ins t i tu- t ions and h av ing an o r ig inal m a t u r i ty longer than f ive years were exempted from the term payment requ ire- men t; fo re ign exchange wou ld not be made ava i lab le at the off ic ial rate to pay for such imports (Monetary Board Regulation No. 078-83). May 26. Public sector imports financed w i th credits granted by off ic ial international f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions w i th the prior au tho r iza t ion of M ICEI and the M in is t ry of F inance were exempted from all res t r ic t ions, inc lud- ing import p roh ib i t ions or temporary suspens ions (Mon- etary Board Regu la t ion No. 085-83). May 26. Imports for pub l ic or pr iva te sector projects f inanced w i th ex ternal credits hav ing an o r ig inal matu- rity longer than f ive years were exempted from the advance deposit requirement (Monetary Board Regula- tion No. 088-83). May 26. A numb er of import i tems were transferred from List II to Section B of List I (Mone ta ry Board Regu la t ion No. 089-83). June 2. Imports of sorghum were sh if ted to the category of List I, Section A, and made subject to prior authorization by MICEI (Monetary Board Regulation No. 096-83). June 29. Imports of ca lc ium carbonate were classified under Section B of List I, invo lv ing prior au tho r iza t ion from M ICEI (Mone ta ry Board Regu la t ion No. 107-83). June 29. Impo r ts by CEPE ( the State Petroleum Corporation) were exempted from the regu la t ion speci- f y i ng the terms of payment (Mone tary Board Regu la t ion No. 108 A-83). July 5. In an amendment of tar iff item 23 .01 .01 .01, imports of f ishmeal were removed from quota restric- tions (Monetary Board Regulation No. 110-83). 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR October 18. The surrender requirement for export proceeds was modified as follows: The Central Bank would purchase at the official rate all foreign exchange proceeds from exports of petroleum and its derivatives, 90 percent of the proceeds from exports of bananas, coffee, and cocoa, and 70 percent of the exports of other products. In addition, the Central Bank of Ecuador was empowered to intervene in the free exchange market to purchase foreign exchange in an amount up to 10 percent of the f .o .b. value of exports of bananas, coffee, cocoa, and sugar, and 30 percent of the f .o .b. va lue of other exports, w i th the exception of petroleum and its deriva- tives, such purchase to be made at the free market buy ing rate prevailing on the collection date of the foreign exchange. Besides, the required percentage of prior deposit was specified for the various import categories as follows, w i th effect from November 1, 1983 (the requirement was abolished on Janua ry 1, 1984): List I I II Section A B Deposit Rate (c . i . f. value) 0 percent 10 percent 25 percent Terms 180 days 270 days (Monetary Board Regu la t ion No. 127-83.) Payments for Invisibles March 8. Foreign exchange sales at the o f f ic ial exchange rate for education abroad were approved on ly for graduate and handicapped students following special training or adaptation courses (Monetary Board Regula- tion No. 059-83). April 2 7. The Central Bank was empowered to make interest payments in foreign exchange at the three-month LIBOR rate to direct importers or intermediary f inanc ial institutions that had paid abroad the foreign exchange funds wh ich they were entitled to obtain at the o f f ic ial rate but had not yet been made available to them by the Central Bank; the interest payments wou ld be ca lcu la ted from the date of the payment by the importer or intermediary financial institution to the date on wh ich the Central Bank fu rn ished the foreign exchange (Monetary Board Regu la t ion No. 078-83). (This regu la t ion was amended by No. 092-83 of June 2, 1983.) May 26. Foreign exchange sales at the official ex- change rate were authorized for payment of news services intended for the mass media (Monetary Board Regulation No. 089-83). (The fac i l i ty had been sus- pended by Regu la t ion No. 066-83.) June 2. The method of ca lcu la t ing interest paymen ts in respect of the arrangement instituted on April 1, 1984 was changed such that interest payments wou ld be calculated from the date of payment of the equ iva lent in sucres to the Central Bank (or the date of receipt of authorization to debit the benef ic iary's current accoun t) up to the date on which the Central Bank furnished the foreign exchange (Monetary Board Regulation No. 092-83). June 2. Authorization was granted for fore ign ex- change to be sold at the off ic ial exchange rate for 172 paymen ts abroad of interest on private sector loans not conform ing to the ref inanc ing provisions specified by the Government (Monetary Board Regulation No. 093-83). June 2. Foreign exchange sales at the official rate were authorized for special studies abroad by handi- capped persons or the ir teachers or instructors; the dura t ion of s tud ies in each case should not exceed three years (Monetary Board Regulation No. 097-83). July 26. In a modification of an arrangement in- troduced in April 1983, eligible importers and inter- mediary in s t i tu t ions were given the option to receive interest paymen ts either in sucres at the free market exchange rate preva i l ing on the date of deposit of local currency counterpart funds at the Central Bank or in foreign exchange by means of a certificate redeemable 210 days from the date of interest payments (Monetary Board Regu la t ion No. 112-83). Exports and Export Proceeds March 8. A control mechanism for export settlement in foreign currencies was instituted w i th a view to e l im in a t ing unde r invo ic ing of Ecuadoran sales to foreign countries (Monetary Board Regulation No. 057-83). June 21. It was decided that the proceeds of petro- leum exports should be surrendered in the official exchange market, and should be calculated on the basis of the selling prices specified in the sales contracts registered w i th the Central Bank of Ecuador (Monetary Board Regu la t ion No. 104-83). September 23. The Central Bank was empowered to deduct the va lue of imported inpu ts for the purpose of calculating the f .o .b. value to be surrendered in respect of exports incorporating raw materials or inputs brought into the coun try under the temporary importation regime for indu s t r ial production (Monetary Board Regulation No. 122-83). Capital March I. The Central Bank was authorized to dis- count (or red iscoun t) for bank ing and f inanc ial institu- t ions es tab l ished in Ecuador, paper or ig ina t ing in credits contracted by such in s t i tu t ions or endorsed by them to Ecuadoran natural or jur id ical persons in the private sector, invo lv ing the conversion of foreign claims in foreign currencies in to sucre c la ims. The discounting f a c i l i ty provided by the Central Bank should cover up to three years, i n c l u d i ng a grace period. The b ank ing or f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions involved in such rediscounting should comply with one of the following conditions: (a) acquire certificates of participation (in accordance w i th Regu la t ion No. 047-83) in an amount equ iva lent to the foreign currency credits complying w i th the specified terms; (b) ob ta in, in favor of the Central B ank, a loan in U .S. dollars in an amount equivalent to the foreign currency credits, w i th a six-year ma tur i ty, not less than one year's grace, and semiannual interest and amortization payments (the funds thus obtained to be used for payment of c la ims converted into sucres); and (c) ob ta in from s im i lar fac i l i t ies, in favor of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the Na t ional Gove rnmen t, comp lemen ta ry loans in an amount equ iva lent to at least 20 percent of the p r iv a te sector credits under t h is a r rangemen t. The c red i ts in sucres granted by banks to the p r iva te sector u n d er the arrangement wou ld be ca l led "S tab i l iza t ion C r ed i t s /' and would be granted in the fo l low ing ra t ios: 30 pe rcent of the refinanced va lue after the f i r st yea r, 60 percent a f ter two years, and 100 percent a f ter three years (M o n e t a ry Board Regu la t ion No. 048-83). March 8. A regu la t ion was in t roduced s t i p u l a t i ng t h at contracts made by pub l ic sector e n t i t i es and repayab le in foreign currency shou ld be registered w i th the Cen t ral Bank (Monetary Board Regu la t ion No. 055-83). April 5. It was announced th at the Cen t ral B a nk wou ld au thor ize and reg is ter fore ign loans to the p r i v a te sector ma tu r ing after J anu a ry 1, 1985 and h a v i ng t e rms of not less than 18 mon th s; and t h at fo re ign ex ch ange from such loans shou ld be surrendered to the Cen t ral Bank at the o f f ic ial b u y i ng rate p r e v a i l i ng on the surrender date. In add i t ion, it was decided th at amo r t i z a- tion and interest paymen ts of up to 2]/2 po in ts above LIBOR (or prime rate) cou ld be made at the o f f i c i al selling rate p reva i l ing on the payment date (M o n e t a ry Board Regu la t ion No. 073-83). May 26. A regu la t ion was in troduced s p e c i f y i ng t h at foreign exchange from direct fo re ign i n v e s tm e nt shou ld be surrendered in the o f f i c i al exchange m a rk et (Mone- tary Board Regulation No. 084-83). June 20. An arrangement was i n s t i t u t ed for se rv ice paymen ts f a l l i ng due be tween November 1, 1982 and December 31, 1984 on pr iva te sector ex t e rn al c red i ts authorized and registered by the Cen t ral B a n k. (T h is arrangement could also be used for o u t s t a n d i ng ex t e rn al credits authorized and registered by the Cen t ral B a nk w i th ma tu r i t ies prior to November 1, 1982, as w e ll as for ma tu r i t ies after 1984.) The a r rangement p rov ided the fo l low ing options in regard to the se rv ic ing of p r iv a te ECUADOR ex t e rn al debt: (a) the cred i tor b ank cou ld choose to preserve i ts c r ed it r e l a t i o n s h ip w i th the deb to r, in w h i ch case the m a t u r i ng o b l i g a t i on s h o u ld be registered w i th the C en t r al B a n k, w h i ch w o u ld agree to p rov ide the fo r e ign ex ch ange at the o f f i c i al exchange rate; (b) the p r i v a te debt cou ld be t ran s fo rmed in to a d i rect ob l iga t ion of the Cen t ral B a nk by means of an i n s t r um e nt ca l led mone ta ry s t a b i l i z a t i on c red i t s; or (c) fo re ign exchange accoun ts in favor of the c red i tor banks cou ld be e s t ab l i sh ed at the Cen t ral B ank in re tu rn for the deb tor's depo s it of e q u i v a l e nt f u n ds in suc res. W i th regard to the i n t r o d u c t i on of the sy s tem of s t a b i l i z a t i on c red i ts, the Cen t ral B a nk was au tho r i z ed to d i s count (or red i scoun t) for Ecuadoran b a n k i ng and f i n a n c i al in s t i tu t ion s, paper o r i g i n a t i ng in c red i ts contracted by such i n s t i t u t i o ns or endorsed by t h em to n a t u r al or j u r i d i c al persons of the p r i v a te sector, i n v o l v i ng the conve rs ion of ex te rnal o b l i g a t i o ns in fo re ign cu r r en c i es in to sucre ob l ig a t ion s. To cover po s s ib le ex ch ange losses, comm i s s ions wou ld be charged at the f o l l ow i ng rates over the o f f i c i al ex ch ange rate on the date of d i s c o u n t i ng or red iscoun t- i n g, depend ing on the o r i g i n al ex ch ange ma rket en t i t le- ment of the t r an s a c t ions and the leng th of the d i s c o u n t i ng (or r e d i s c o u n t i n g) per iod: O r i g i n al E x c h a n ge M a r k et E n t i t l e m e nt O f f i c i al m a r k et O f f i c i al and free m a r k e ts ( R e g. N o. 1202) Free m a r k et Sho r t - t e rm free m a r k et F i r st 18 M o n t hs Each Qua r ter The rea f ter 20 25 30 40 3 4 6 7 (M o n e t a ry Board R e g u l a t i on N o. 1 0 1 - 8 3 .) July 26. Am e n dm e n ts were made in R egu l a t ion No. 101 -83, p e r t a i n i ng to the r e f i n a n c i ng of ex te rnal p r iva te sector c red i ts (Mon e t a ry Board R e g u l a t i on No. 113 -83 ). 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position on December 3 J, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Egypt is the Egyp t ian Pound, wh ich is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at LE 1 = US$1.42857. The established b u y i ng and se l l ing rates of the Central Bank of Egypt for the U .S. do l lar on December 31, 1983 were LE 0.700 and LE 0.707 respectively, per US$1. Established rates for 16 other convertible currencies are based on cross rates quoted in New Yo rk .1 The established rate on ly app l ies on the receipt side to proceeds from exports of pe tro leum, cotton, and rice, Suez Canal dues, and SUMED p ipe l ine revenues, and on the paymen ts side to se t t lemen ts for imports of certain essential foodstuffs, insecticides and fertilizers, and specified capital transac t ions. A special exchange rate, equivalent to LE 0.3913 = US$1, applies to transactions under b i la te ral paymen ts agree- ments w i th the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina and coun t r ies that are not members of the International Monetary Fund, as well as to l iqu ida t ion accounts related to past bilateral payments agreements.2 A d ifferent rate also established by the au tho r i t ies is applied to exchange transactions by the commerc ial bank s, no tab ly those with respect to workers' remittances, tou r i st receipts, export items other than those specified above, certain private imports, public sector imports not financed by the Central Bank, and certain cap i tal t ransac t ions. On December 31, 1983 the b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the U .S. dollar for such transac t ions through the comme rc ial banks were LE 0.83168 and LE 0.84000, per U S $ 1, respectively. In addition, certain transactions, inc lud ing most private sector imports and certain paymen ts for inv is ib les, take place at f ree ly negotiated exchange rates ("own exchange market"). Forward cover is ava i lab le for foreign trade transactions. Banks do not requ ire prior exchange control approval for dealings or transactions in foreign currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Comm i t tee for Foreign Exchange, under the M in is try of Economy and Foreign Trade, and is imp lemen ted under the supe rv is ion of the Under Secretary for Foreign Exchange A f f a i r s. A foreign exchange budget is established a n n u a l l y. Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange t ran sac t ion s, within the framework of a general au thor iza t ion, w i thout the need to obtain specific exchange control approva l. The Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade superv ises 'A u s t r i an s ch i l l ing s, B e l g i an f r a n c s, C a n a d i an d o l l a r s, D a n i sh kroner, deutsche ma rk, F inn i sh m a r k k a a, French f r an c s, I t a l i an l i r e, Japanese yen, K uw a i ti d in a r s, N e th e r l ands g u i l d e r s, No rw eg i an kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds s t e r l ing, Swed i sh k rono r, and Swiss francs. 2A temporary 15 percent p r em ium is app l ied for the period t h r o u gh end-February 1984 for transactions through the b i la teral p aym en ts agreements w i th the Democratic People's R epub l ic of Korea and the U .S .S .R. 174 imports and exports. Certain imports and exports are reserved for pub l ic sector en t i t ies. Port Said City is a free zone. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts to and from countries w i th wh ich Egypt does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in any conver t ib le currency, in Egyptian pounds, or in a conver t ib le currency to the debit or credit of the appropriate Free Account (see section on Nonresident Accoun ts, be low ), or in any other manner prescribed or permitted by the foreign exchange regulations manual. However, by a decision of the Central Bank, the proceeds from exports of raw cotton to convertible currency coun tr ies mu st be received in deutsche mark, Swiss f ranc s, or U . S. dollars (in addition, for exports to France, Japan, and the Un i ted K ingdom, in the curren- cies of those coun t r ie s ). Se t t lemen ts w i th coun tr ies w i th wh ich Egypt has b i la te ral paymen ts agreements are made according to the terms of those agreemen ts .3 However, payments to such countries for "own exchange" imports and various other purposes may be made in convertible currency. Certain se t t lemen ts w i th coun t r ies w i th wh ich indemn i ty agree- men ts concerning compensa t ion for nationalized prop- erty are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds w i th the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDRs and may be paid by d eb i t ing Canal Dues Accoun ts, Advance Payment Canal Dues Accoun ts, Free Accoun ts in Foreign Currency, or Free Accoun ts in Egyp t ian Pounds. Canal Dues Ac- counts must be opened in foreign currency, and balances are re transferab le abroad. Nonresident Accounts In add i t ion to the special accounts related to Egypt's bilateral payments agreements or to the indemnity agreements concluded w i th certain countries and Canal Dues Accoun ts, there are three types of accounts: Free Accoun t s, D A c coun t s, and Nonconvertible Capital Accoun ts. Free Accounts may be opened in the name of any e n t i ty o ther than the Egyp t ian Gove rnmen t, pub l ic au tho r i t ie s, and pub l ic sector en t i t ies. They may be opened e i ther in fore ign currency or Egyptian pounds; the la t ter are free ly conver t ib le. Free Accounts may be credited w i th transfers of convertible currency or with the proceeds from the sale of such currency; with transfers from other Free Accounts; w i th proceeds from the sale of fore ign bank notes wh ich the holder has declared upon en try in to Egyp t; w i th interest on the 3On December 3 1, 1983 Egypt m a in t a in ed ac t ive b i la te ral paymen ts agreements w i th People's R e p u b l ic of Ch in a, Democratic People's R e p u b l ic of Korea, S u d a n, and U . S . S . R. The agreement w i th Mongo l ia is i n o p e r a t i v e. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution accounts; and w i th the equ iv a l ent of any payment authorized in convertible cu r rency. They may be deb i ted for payments abroad in a conver t ib le cu r rency; for transfers to other Free Accounts; for purchases of fo re ign bank notes or other means of paymen t; for any paymen ts in Egypt, including those for exports; and for bank charges and commissions. D Accounts may be opened in the name of any res ident of a coun try w i th wh ich Egypt has a b i la te ral p a ym e n ts agreement. The accounts must be designated by the name of the partner coun try concerned. These accoun ts may be credited w i th receipts under the respec t ive payments agreement and w i th the equ iv a l ent of t rans fe rs authorized to the country of the account holder. They may be debited for transfers to the coun t ry of the account holder and for local paymen ts ( i n c l u d i ng those for Egyptian exports) authorized by the imp lemen t ing regu- lations and w i th in the scope of the re levant p aym en ts agreement. Nonconvertible Capital Accounts mu st be credited with any payment of a capital na tu re to a fore igner l iv ing outside of Egypt that is not rem i t tab le under the exchange control regu la t ions. Banks may deb it these accounts for charges lega l ly due from the account holder. Accounts held by ind iv idua ls may be debited up to a l im it of LE 2,000 a year for use by the account holder. Accounts held by ju r id i c al persons may be debited for settlement of ou ts tand ing ob l iga t ions to the Egyptian authorities and for paymen ts to res iden ts for services rendered, and up to a l im it of LE 2,000 a year for expenses incurred in connection w i th the a c t iv i t i es or residence of the ho lder's employees in Egyp t. Resident Accounts In addition to Free Accoun ts, wh i ch may be opened by both nonresidents and residents, residents may hold foreign currency in two other accoun ts, as described below. Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts may be opened in the name of authorized rec ip ien ts and credited w i th all or part of proceeds from certain exports of goods and nonfactor services. Pub l ic sector compan ies may use these funds for their purposes w i t h in the prov is ion of the foreign exchange budget or transfer them to other pub l ic sector companies w i t h in the same sector. Pr iva te sector exporters may debit these accounts for v i s ib le and invisible payments or transfer the ir foreign exchange to other accounts. Exporters of on ion s, ga r l ic, potatoes, peanuts, and c i trus f ru i ts are en t i t led to re ta in on ly 50 percent of their foreign exchange ea rn ing s. Banks are allowed to pay interest on the ba lances in re ten t ion accounts. W i th specified exceptions, balances in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts mu st be surrendered to the commercial banks a year after the f u n ds have been deposited. Import Accounts may be opened by au thor ized b anks in the name of Egyp t ian na t iona l s. These accoun ts may be credited w i th foreign bank notes not declared on arrival. In add i t ion, they may be credited in the same EGYPT m ann er as Free Accoun ts, by t rans fe rs from other import accoun ts, and by in terest on these accoun ts. They may be deb i ted to f in an ce impor ts under the "own exchange" import scheme, transferred abroad to cover the account ho lde r 's exp end i tu re up to a m a x im um annu al allowance equ iva lent to US$5,000, used to settle local transactions, transferred abroad for o ther purposes subject to specified r e g u l a t i o n s, or for the purpose of de f ray ing bank ing fees and comm i s s ion s. Imports and Import Payments All impo r ts from South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. A Supreme Coun c il for the P l ann ing of Foreign Trade is entrusted w i th es tab l ish ing a long-term policy for exports and impo r t s, c o n t r o l l i ng the annu al export and import p l a n, and sup e rv i s ing the execu t ion of the foreign exchange budget. Most imports from payments agree- ment coun t r ies (except those made under the "own exchange" a r rangemen t ), as we ll as imports of specified goods from any source, are reserved for the pub l ic sector. Imports by the central gove rnmen t, pub l ic au thor i t ies, and p u b l ic sector compan ies, as we ll as certain private impo r ts under the scheme for ar t isans and c ra f t smen, are effected w i t h in the provisions of the foreign exchange budget th rough the Central Bank and the authorized comme rc ial b a n k s. For purposes of adm in i s t ra t ion, the economy is d iv ided in to several sectors (ag r icu l tu re, i n d u s t r y, t r an spo r t a t ion, e t c . ). The a n n u al foreign ex- change budget provides for a spec if ic quo ta for each sector, and the au tho r i t ies in charge of each sector decide upon the goods to be imported and the en t i t ies wh ich are to import them w i t h in that quo ta. A ll imports financed by the Cen t ral B ank are at the es tab l ished rate, w i th the excep t ion of imports und er b i la te ral paymen ts agree- ments w i th countries that are not members of the Fund, w h i ch are f inanced at a special more appreciated rate. A more depreciated rate applies to imports f inanced by comme rc ial bank s. Most p r iva te sector imports are effected through the "own exchange" ma rke t. App l ica t ions for "own ex- change" impo r ts, o ther than those under taken by compa- n ies registered under the Foreign Inve s tment Law, are reviewed by the Committee for Import Rationalization. There are two l i s ts of commod i t ies re levant to the regu la t ions gove rn ing these imports. The first l ist in- cludes 231 items and is subd iv ided into four categories: category A i n c l u d es foods tu f fs and med ic ines for hum an use; category B inc ludes raw ma te r ia l s, in termed ia te goods, and cap i tal goods; category C comprises trans- po r ta t ion - re la ted i tems; and category D comprises items considered as l u x u ry goods. On ly i tems in category A need approval by the Comm i t tee for Import Ra t iona l iza- t ion to ensu re comp l iance w i th price controls on these goods. The second l ist inc ludes 135 commodities p lus all other produc ts not spec if ied in the f irst l i s t. Imports in th is l i st are res t r ic ted as a means of protecting producers of domes t ic sub s t i tu t es and for social reasons. After an import l icense has been issued by the Committee for 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT Import Ra t iona l iza t ion, but before a letter of credit has been opened, an importer is required to lodge an advance import deposit in foreign currency w i th an au thor ized bank. The amount of the deposit is s t ipu la ted as a percentage of the f .o .b. va lue of imports: 25 percent for items in category A; 40 percent for items in category B; 75 percent for items in category C; and 100 percent for all other items. The deposit must be lodged for a m in imum of one mon th and be redeposited by the authorized bank at the Cen tral Bank in a non in teres t- bearing account; it is re turned to the importer upon arrival of the sh ipp ing documen ts, provided that at least a month has elapsed since the deposit was made. Imports by companies registered under the Foreign Inves tment Law (Law No. 43 of 1974) require a pe rm it by the Investment Au thor i ty; such imports are not subject to the advance import requ iremen t. An economic development tax of 10 percent of the c . i . f. value is payable on imports; the tax is 5 percent for certain essential foods tuffs imported by the M i n i s t ry of Supply. A statistical tax of 1 percent of the c . i . f. va lue is payable on all imports except whea t. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide foreign exchange for payments for certain inv is ib les in accordance w i th general authorizations and ins truc t ions and up to specific quotas. Residents may purchase, through local banks and up to specified amoun ts, the foreign exchange required for travel expenses and certain other purposes, at the rate established for exchange transac t ions w i th the commercial banks; an adm in is t ra t ive charge of 20 per- cent is levied on purchases of fore ign exchange for travel purposes. Egyptian na t iona ls are entitled to re ta in the ir earnings in foreign exchange (except those accruing from exports and tour ism) in Free Accoun ts and may use this foreign exchange free ly for paymen ts abroad. They may also acquire additional foreign exchange th rough the medium of Free Accoun ts (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, above). Travelers may not export more than LE 20 in Egyp t ian bank notes. Egyptian travelers may take w i th them any foreign exchange that they have acquired leg i t ima te ly; foreign travelers leaving Egypt may reconvert the ir remaining Egyptian pounds after deduction of US$30 for each night spent in Egyp t. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart from exports to South A f r ica, w h i ch are p roh ib- ited, and commodities required for the na t ional economy that may be restricted, exports may be made free of license. Exports of many products are organized and supervised by foreign trade comm i t tees. Cotton, r ice, and petroleum are exported by the pub l ic sector on ly, and their proceeds are subject to the three-mon th repatriation requ iremen t. Proceeds from exports of movies, te lev is ion pro- grams, and videocassettes mu st be repatriated w i t h in six mon ths; other export proceeds other than those from 176 books, newspapers, and other publications must be repatriated w i th in four months from the date of ship- m en t. Proceeds from exports other than petroleum, cotton, and rice may be f u l ly or partially retained in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts. Proceeds from exports to b i la teral paymen ts agreement countries must be obtained in accordance w i th the provisions of the re levant agreemen t. Some exports to specified countries may be settled through indemn i ty accounts. Proceeds from Invisibles Ea rn ings abroad by persons other than the Egyptian Government, public authorities, and public sector enti- ties may be held abroad or retained indefinitely in Free Accoun ts. W i t h in specified limits, receipts from the provision of local ho te l, transport, or travel agency services to tour is ts may be retained in Foreign Exchange Retention Accoun ts. Many pub l ic sector and other en t i t ies are perm i t ted to retain their receipts from inv i s ib l es in Foreign Exchange Retention Accoun ts, and in many ins tances are exempt from the periodic surren- der requ iremen ts applied to these accounts. Certain travel in Egypt by foreigners may be financed from various special accoun ts, such as those under indemnity agreements w i th certain countries. Egyptian nationals re tu rn ing from abroad may open w i th in three days of arrival Import Accoun ts in foreign exchange in amounts exceeding the equ iv a l ent of LE 1,000 w i thout having to declare the source of the ir funds; thereafter, a limit of LE 1,000 is applied for deposits into such accounts. Persons a r r iv ing in Egypt from abroad may import up to LE 20 in Egyp t ian bank notes and are permitted to b r ing in, and to use loca l ly, un l im i t ed amounts in foreign exchange; a cus toms declaration is required if the traveler wishes to re-export foreign currency or use it to open a Free Accoun t. Foreign travelers must convert into Egyp t ian currency the equ iva lent of US$150 to obtain an en t ry v i s a. Capital Egyp t ian na t iona ls who have deposited foreign earn- ings in Free Accoun ts in Egyp t ian banks may use this fore ign exchange for any purpose, inc lud ing transfer abroad. Foreign exchange deposited in Import Accounts may also be transferred abroad up to specified limits. W i th these excep t ions, outward capital transfers are restricted. Egyp t ian em igran ts are authorized to transfer abroad funds up to LE 900 a person or LE 3,500 a f am i l y, and to export other personal effects and furn i ture up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a fam i ly. Authorized banks are empowered to import, export, and negotiate secur i t ies and to effect transfers related to the sale or purchase of either Egyptian or foreign securities. Brokers registered on the stock exchanges of Cairo and A lexand r ia are authorized to intermediate in the t rans fer of owne rsh ip of securities, whether at home or abroad, and to undertake the local collection or payment in foreign currency of the value of the securi- t ies. Foreign and jo in t -ven tu re banks are required to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ensure that 15 percent of their foreign currency deposits can be made available on ca l l, if necessary, by the Central Bank. Transfers of accrued a l imony are permitted in accor- dance with court orders. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a family —irrespective of whe ther the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released from a fam i ly's assets in Egypt to persons of foreign na t iona l i ty who leave the country permanently after a period of residence of at least five years. Any amount above th is limit is credited to a Nonconvertible Capital Accoun t. Any payment of a capital nature not remittable under the exchange control regulations must be credited to a Non- convertible Capital Accoun t. Law No. 43 of June 19, 1974 (amended by Law No. 32 of June 9, 1977) Concerning the Inves tment of Arab and Foreign Funds and the Free Zones def ines the treatment of new foreign investments. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by th is law are considered on an ind iv idual basis. Gold Authorized banks are empowered to b u y, se l l, and keep abroad gold ( inc lud ing gold coin) and other precious metals for the account of customers entitled to hold Free Accounts. Authorized banks may import such gold and other precious metals for local deposit and may subsequently re-export them. Certain persons other than the monetary authorities, inc lud ing authorized indus t r ial users, are allowed to import precious metals and stones for industrial and local market requirements. Exports of gold and silver fabrics are permitted, provided that the sales proceeds are repatriated in convertible currency. Travelers are permitted to take out and bring in gold jewelry w i th in specified l im i ts. There is a free market for gold coin in Cairo. A person arriving or departing may carry jewelry and other va luab les up to LE 500. EGYPT Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement March I. A temporary 15 percent p rem ium was introduced for a period of one year for v is ib le trans- actions through the bilateral payments agreement with the U . S . S .R. June 23. A 15 percent p rem ium was introduced for the period th rough end-February 1984 for v is ib le trans- actions through the bilateral payments agreement w i th the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea. Prescription of Currency April 14. The bilateral paymen ts agreements w i th Jordan and the Yemen Arab Repub l ic were terminated. Resident Accounts April 21. Au thor iza t ion was granted for proceeds from exports other than petroleum, cotton, and rice to be f u l ly or partially retained in Foreign Exchange Retention Accounts. Ru les on the use of such accounts were also l ibera l ized. Exporters were allowed to repatriate their foreign exchange earnings w i th in four months from the date of sh ipmen t; p rev ious ly, such repatriation was required w i t h in three mon ths from the date of sh ipmen t. Payments for Invisibles July 1. A 20 percent adm in is tra t ive charge was imposed on purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes. Exports and Export Proceeds May 29. Au tho r iza t ion was granted for exporters of movies, television programs, and videocassettes to repa- triate the ir foreign exchange proceeds w i th in six months from the date of sh ipmen t, instead of the usual four mon ths. Gold April 28. Au tho r iza t ion was granted for arriving and departing persons to carry jewe l ry and other valuables up to LE 500 a person. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of El Salvador is the Salvadoran Colon. El Salvador ma in ta ins a dual exchange market system consisting of an official market in which the Salvadoran colon is pegged to the U . S. do l lar, the in terven t ion currency, at (£ 2.50 = US$1, and a parallel market in wh ich the va lue of the colon is allowed to f luc tua te. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank for transactions w i th the pub l ic are (£ 2.49 buy ing and (£.2.51 se l l ing, per US$1. Off ic ial market transactions by commercial banks w i th the pub l ic take place w i th in these l im i t s. B u y i ng and selling rates in the o f f ic ial market for other curren- cies are based on the daily quotations for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. A stamp tax of 0 .1 percent is applicable to all sales of exchange; on amounts below (£ 100,000, the tax is levied at fixed amounts that may be slightly in excess of 0 .1 percent. Buy ing and selling rates in the parallel market are not fixed by the Central Reserve Bank, but are u s u a l ly not left to f luc tua te f ree ly by the commercial b a n k s .l Only commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank are permitted to purchase or sell foreign exchange in the parallel market; ind iv idua l s2 may open foreign currency deposit accounts in the commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank and use funds in such accounts to deal in the parallel market in respect of certain authorized transactions. There is a third, informal foreign exchange market; in addition to un au- thorized transac t ions, this market handles transactions not effected in the other two exchange markets because of ra t ion ing. The exchange rate in th is th ird market f luc tua tes according to market forces and averaged (£ 4.00 = US$1 at the end of December 1983. On November 6, 1946 El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to fo rma l ly accept the ob l iga t ions of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Subject to any directives issued by the Monetary Board, exchange control au tho r i ty is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank through its Exchange Control Department. Au tho r i ty to approve most paymen ts through the parallel market is delegated to the commer- cial banks and the Mortgage Bank. Prior authorization by the Exchange Control Department of the Central Reserve Bank is required for all payments through the off ic ial marke t. Exports of a number of commod i t ies require licenses issued by the M in is try of Economy, 'The b u y i ng and s e l l ing rates in the pa ra l lel ma rket f l u c t u a t ed around <£ 4.00 per US$1 at the end of December 1983. I n c l u d i ng exporters of spec if ied non t r ad i t ion al p roduc t s, i n d u s t r i al enterprises th at export more t h an 25 percent of the ir p roduc ts to destinations outside the Central American Common Marke t, i n d i v i d u- a ls w i th income from tou r i sm, fore ign comp an i e s, emba s s ie s, and in te rna t ional o rgan iza t ions. 178 subject to agreement by the Ministry of Agriculture. Since J anu a ry 30, 1980 exports of major commodities have been under government supervision. Exports of sugar are governed by the Ins t i tu te Nac ional de Azucar ( I N A Z U C A R ), and those of coffee are governed by the In s t i tu to Nac ional de Cafe ( INCAFE ). Prescription of Currency Paymen ts to other member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM)3 in respect of trade and specified inv i s ib l es must be settled in the currencies of those countries or in Salvadoran colones through the Cen tral Amer ican Clearing House. Payments to Mexico are also settled th rough the Clearing House. Otherwise, residents are free to make authorized paymen ts in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign in s t i tu t ions or persons established in El Salvador may hold nonresident accounts in foreign currency with au thor ized b ank s, provided that such accounts are credited w i th fore ign exchange received from abroad. Banks may also free ly open foreign currency accounts, for any period of t ime and in any amoun t, in the names of phys ical persons (whe ther of foreign or Salvadoran n a t ion a l i ty) who reside abroad and, for a m ax imum period of six months, in the names of foreign persons s tay ing in El Salvador for less than six mon ths. All nonresident accounts may be utilized freely, but the commercial banks mu st make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements on such accoun ts. Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts Foreign currency deposit accoun ts may be opened only by exporters of specified nontraditional products, indu s t r i al enterprises expor t ing more than 25 percent of their products to countries outside the CACM, certain ind iv idu a ls w i th receipts from foreign companies, tour- ism, as we ll as staff of embassies, consulates, and in te rna t ional organ iza t ions. Transfers of funds between fore ign currency deposit accounts are prohibited; bal- ances in such accoun ts can be used for conversion into colones th rough sales to the banks at the parallel market rate, for payment of imports of goods and services, or for mon th ly w i thd r aw a ls of up to US$2,000 to cover expenses for foreign travel, fam i ly maintenance abroad, educa t ion, med ical t rea tmen t, personal insurance pre- m ium s, and other personal needs. The accounts may be opened in U . S. do l lars or in any other approved foreign currency; t ransac t ions can be effected only in the currency in w h i ch an account is opened. Accounts may 3Cos ta R i c a, G u a t em a l a, H o n d u r a s, and N i c a r agu a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution be in the form of a demand or t ime deposit and are subject to a reserve requirement of 10 percent. The banks must place the funds thus deposited in inves tmen ts abroad, on condition that the m a tu r i ty of inve s tmen ts does not exceed 30 days for demand deposits, and provided that the ma tu r i ty of inves tmen ts u s ing t ime deposits is the same as the ma tu r i ty of the t ime deposit. The banks are required to pay interest on the t ime deposits at rates of up to 2 percent below the L IBOR. Imports and Import Payments Imports of automobiles w i th over 1600 cub ic cen t i- meters or priced at more than US$8,000, certain o ther motor vehicles and motorcycles, buses, recreational vehicles, airplanes, pleasure boats, and other vessels not used for f ish ing are prohibited. Import licenses are issued by the M in is try of Economy and are requ ired for only a few items, inc lud ing airplanes, f i rea rms, amm u- nition, military equ ipmen t, dynam i te, cotton for indu s- trial use, ju te sacks, skins, leather, some chem ical and pharmaceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccharin. Imports valued at US$200 or more from all coun t r ies must be registered w i th the Central Reserve Bank before orders are placed; orders for imports e l ig ib le for fore ign exchange f inanc ing through the o f f ic ial market mu st be approved by the Exchange Control Depar tmen t, w h i le approval for imports through the pa ra l lel market is delegated to' the commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank. Certain goods that are considered nonessen t ial com- modities (including alcoholic beverages, tobacco, cos- metics, watches, jewe l ry, au tomob i les, f u r n i t u r e, do- mestic appliances, photographic equ ipmen t, prepared foods, electric shavers, and typew r i te rs ), wh ich repre- sent about 25 percent of the total va lue of imports may be paid for only through the parallel marke t. On ly i tems considered as priority imports may be paid for th rough the off ic ial ma rke t .4 Imports from countries outside the CACM that app ly discriminatory restrictions against exports from El Sal- vador must be paid for before customs c learance, w i th the exception of industrial raw materials, wh ich may be paid for w i th in three years (medicines from Mexico may be paid for w i th in 90 days; th is applies also to imports of spare parts from Mexico by importers who are regarded as small enterprises). All payments for imports e l ig ib le for the o f f i c i al market mu st be approved by the Exchange Control Department of the Central Reserve B ank. When sup- pliers abroad request payment in advance, a prior deposit of 10 percent, calculated on the va lue of the advance paymen t, is required from the importer as a gua ran tee. Guarantee deposits are refunded when the goods arrive in the coun try, provided that payment has been made in fu ll to the exporter. In add i t ion, all imports exceeding 4These in c lude energy supp l ie s, basic food i t em s, m e d i c i n e s, i n p u ts and raw materials for the ag r icu l tu ral and i n d u s t r i al sectors, and spare parts. EL SALVADOR US$2,000 that are paid for by letters of credit or draf ts (cobranzas) are sub ject to a 10 percent prior depos i t .5 The deposit may be made in cash at the Central Bank or any au tho r ized b a n k. If the importer so desires, a bond issued or guaran teed by the Government or a guaran tee by a bank (fianza) in an amount equal to 10 percent of his average mon th ly imports may be deposited instead of cash. A ll paymen ts for imports in the pa ra l lel market mu st be channe led th rough fore ign currency accoun ts opened w i th an au thor ized commerc ial bank or the Mortgage B a n k. Under the p rov is ions of the Central Ame r ican Agree- ment on Fiscal Incen t ive s, El Salvador grants du ty exonera t ions on impo r ts of raw ma ter ia ls and cap i tal goods to approved indu s t r i al f i rm s. Imports o r ig in a t ing ou ts ide the CACM are subject to an import surcharge of 30 percent of the app l icab le import d u t y; the surcharge is not app l ied to certain i n d u s t r i al e q u i pm e nt and raw ma ter ia ls that are free of d u ty under the I n d u s t r i al Incen t ive Law. Many nones- sen t ial goods are subject to a selective con sump t ion t ax, at rates of 5, 10, 20, 25, or 30 percen t. Goods of Central Ame r ican o r ig in are exemp t. There has been an a c cumu l a t ion of arrears on pay- men ts for impor ts. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for inv i s ib les are proh ib i ted in the o f f ic ial ma rke t, except for certain s tudent and med ical expenses, o f f ic ial t rave l, and paymen ts of in terest and d iv idends on registered c a p i t a l. S tuden ts registered w i th the Cen tral Reserve Bank prior to November 30, 1981 for u n i v e r- s i t y, pos tgradua te, or t e chn i c al t r a in ing abroad may purchase fore ign exchange in the o f f i c i al market up to the equ iv a l ent of US$300 a mon th for l iv ing expenses and up to a m a x im um of US$5,000 a year for educa- t ional expenses. S tuden ts w i th scho larsh ips f inanced by in t e rn a t ion al o rgan iza t ions may also purchase fore ign exchange in the o f f i c i al market up to the amoun ts specified in the scho larsh ip. In add i t ion, ind iv idu a ls s tudy ing abroad w i th a guaran tee from the Fondo de Ga ran t ia para el Credito Educa t ive (EDUCRED ITO) or f inanced by the Fondo de Desarrollo Economico as of December 1, 1981 may pu rchase fore ign exchange in the o f f ic ial market for the amount of the ir educa t ional expenses (not to exceed US$300 a mon th a person for l i v i ng expenses). Foreign exchange can also be purchased in the o f f ic ial ma rket to cover med ical and hosp i tal expenses abroad up to US$3,000 a person, sub ject to a 100 percent prior deposit and sub s t an t i a t ion th rough med ical ce r t i f ica t ion, b i l l s, rece ip ts, and other pe r t inent documen ts. Th is deposit r equ i r em ent is wa ived wh en fore ign exchange is requested to pay for services already rendered, sub ject to appropriate v e r i f i c a t ion. 5Im p o r ts of raw m a t e r i a ls for the a g r i c u l t u r al and i n d u s t r i al sectors w h i ch are pa id for by le t te rs of c r ed it und er spec ial l in es of c red it arranged by the C en t r al Rese rve B a nk a re ex empt from t h is r e q u i r em e n t. 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR The commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank are permitted to sell foreign exchange in the parallel market for payments for inv is ib le transactions of a personal nature ( i . e ., study abroad, foreign trave l, medical care, family assistance, and insurance fees) w i t h in the fo l low- ing limits: (a) up to US$2,000 a trip to countries outside Central America for each person over 12 years of age, (one half of the amount for ch i ldren under 12 years), with a limit of two trips a year; (b) up to a l im it of US$500 a trip to countries in Central America, w i th an annual l im it of US$3,000; and (c) up to US$2,000 a year for personal expenses, such as fam i ly ma in tenance and insurance premiums. Add i t ional amoun ts for foreign travel and family remittances can be sold to meet bona fide requirements; there is no l im it on the amount that can be sold to meet expenses for medical treatment and study abroad. There are arrears on paymen ts for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for certain foodstuffs and other items for wh ich the authorities w ish to ensure an adequate local supply. Proceeds from traditional exports (coffee, cotton, sugar, shr imp, lob- sters) must be received through a bank in El Salvador, and the foreign exchange must be surrendered in the official market. Proceeds from exports of specified nontraditional products to countries outside Central America must be sold to the commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank for use in the parallel market or be deposited in special foreign currency deposit accounts with authorized banks exclusively in the name of the exporters concerned. Exporters of nontraditional prod- ucts are required to use funds in their special foreign currency accounts or to purchase foreign exchange in the parallel market to effect payments for their own imports of goods and services. Industrial enterprises wh ich export more than 15 percent of their products to countries outside Central America must sell their foreign exchange receipts to commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank in the parallel market. For at most a year from the date of the authorization, the Central Bank w i ll make foreign exchange available at the off ic ial exchange rate to cover the excess of the cost of imported inpu ts of goods and services over the value of exports to countries outside Central America. If the value of such exports exceeds the cost of imported inpu ts, the enterprise in question shall be subject to the treatment prescribed in the previous paragraph; that is, its import payments w i ll be settled through the use of foreign currency deposit accounts or with foreign exchange purchased from the commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank in the parallel marke t. Export transactions must be declared to the Exchange Control Department before shipment. The collection term normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be authorized by the Exchange Control Department. W i th the exception of sales to "new markets," exports of coffee and sugar are subject to an 180 export t ax. An export registration certificate from the Central Reserve Bank is requ i red, prior to clearance through cus toms, for all exports in excess of US$200. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from inv i s ib les mu st be surren- dered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commerc ial bank. Rece ip ts from personal transfers, and by representatives of fore ign compan ies, res ident ind i- v idua l s, ju r id i c al persons, and from tour ism must be sold to the commerc ial banks and the Mortgage Bank in the para l lel ma rke t. Personal transfers may be deposited in the special foreign currency deposit accounts on ly in the name of the bene f ic ia r ies. Embassies, consu la tes, and offices of in te rna t ional organizations in El Salvador and the ir employees are allowed to sell the ir foreign receipts to commercial banks and the Mortgage Bank in the parallel market or deposit such receipts in the special foreign currency accounts in the ir names for purposes of mee t ing the ir fore ign exchange requ i remen ts. Travelers may br ing in (£ 200 in domestic notes and coin. This l im it is sub ject to mod i f ica t ion, however, to fac i l i ta te border trade w i th other Cen tral Ame r ican coun tr ies. Capital A ll exchange receipts re su l t ing from capital transac- t ions must be surrendered to the monetary authorities. Paymen ts abroad represen t ing cap i tal movemen ts require exchange l icenses; such licenses are not granted for res iden t-owned cap i ta l. The entry of cap i tal w i th a ma tur i ty in excess of one year in the form of foreign inve s tment must be registered w i th the M in is t ry of Economy. Reg is tra t ion ensures ( 1) free remittance of net profits on foreign capital invested in indus t r ial enter- prises, enterprises engaged in the extraction of non- renewable na tu ral resources, and tourist enterprises; (2) the rem i t tance of net prof i ts of enterprises engaged in other ac t iv i t ies up to a l im it of 10 percent a year of the registered cap i tal ( larger amoun ts may be authorized in special cases by the M i n i s t ry of Economy); (3) repatria- tion of the proceeds from the total or partial l iqu ida t ion of the enterprise (after payment of taxes) in proportion to the par t ic ipa t ion of fore ign cap i tal in the total capital; (4) rem i t tance of the sales proceeds of shares and other ins t rumen ts representing inves tmen ts or participations, i n c l u d i ng cap i tal ga ins; and (5) payment of interest and amor t iza t ion as determined at the t ime of reg is tra t ion. In the cases under (3) and (4), in add i t ion to the approval of the Exchange Control Depar tmen t, the prior approval of the M in i s t ry of Economy is requ ired. Foreign invest- ments made in El Salvador prior to J u ne 1, 1961 must also be registered w i th the M in i s t ry of Economy or the Exchange Control Department. Prior approval by the Exchange Control Department is required for ou tward rem i t tances of interest and amorti- zation on short-term loans from abroad through the off ic ial marke t; fore ign loans w i th a m a tu r i ty of up to one year must be au thor ized by the Central Reserve ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Bank; foreign loans w i th a m a tu r i ty of more than one year must be au thor ized by the M i n i s t ry of Economy. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain m in imum capital requ iremen ts for bus inesses that are owned by foreign na t iona ls and for those in wh i ch foreign nationals have a shareho ld ing in teres t. For purposes of th is decree, foreign na t iona ls are def ined as persons who are not citizens of one of the f ive CACM countries. Gold Gold coins in denom ina t ions of <£ 25, <£ 50, (£ 100, and (£ 200 have been issued as legal tender, but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for n um i sm a t ic purposes. W i th th is excep- tion, residents other than the monetary au tho r i t ies are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than j ew e l ry requ ire licenses issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are granted for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and indus t r ial users. In prac t ice, impor ts of nonmonetary unworked gold are made only by jewelers' cooperatives ac t ing on beha lf of the ir members and other users. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments February 18. W i th effect from February 2 1, 1983 payments for specified goods inc luded in a l i st of 77 EL SALVADOR i tems were required to be settled through the para l lel ma rke t. September 1. Imports of nonessential goods pro- h ib i ted under var ious regu la t ions issued since 1980 were reau tho r ized, w i th the f o l l ow i ng exceptions: automobiles w i th over 1600 cub ic centimeters or priced at more than US$8,000, cer ta in other specified motor veh ic les and motorcycles, buses, recreational vehicles, airplanes, p leasure boats, and other vessels not used for f i s h i n g. Payments for Invisibles February 18. W i th effect from February 2 1, 1983 paymen ts for leas ing of movies and television f i lm s, as we ll as comm iss ions and royalties generated dur ing 1982 and onward were required to be settled th rough the pa ra l lel ma rke t. Capital February 18. W i th effect from February 21, 1983 paymen ts for the repa tr ia t ion of new fore ign inves tment du r ing 1983 and onward were required to be settled th rough the pa ra l lel ma rke t. February 22. The regu la t ion wh i ch transferred from the off ic ial to the parallel market all settlements relating to repa tr ia t ion of foreign inve s tment made before 1983, and interest on pr iva te sector debt was suspended. June 7. Settlements on account of repatriation of foreign inv e s tm en t, d iv idends pend ing approval by the Cen tral Reserve Bank as of December 3 1, 1982, and d iv idends earned d u r i ng 1983 were transferred from the o f f ic ial to the pa ra l lel ma rke t. 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the Equatorial Guinean Ekwele, which is issued by the Bank of Equatorial Guinea (the central bank ), and is pegged to the Spanish peseta at a rate of EK 1 = Pta 0.5. The ekwele replaced the Equatorial Guinean peseta and was at par with the Spanish peseta, which was Equatorial Guinea's intervention currency un t il J u ly 12, 1977, when the Spanish peseta was devalued. Thereafter, Equatorial Guinea suspended exchange operations, w i th the exception of some small transactions that took place on the basis of a fixed relationship between the ekwele and a currency basket. From April 9, 1979 to August 5, 1979 the ekwele was pegged to the SDR at the rate of Bipk. 90 = SDR 1. From August 6, 1979 to June 20, 1980 the ekwele was pegged at par to the Spanish peseta, i .e ., EK 1 = Pta 1. On June 21, 1980 the ekwele was depreciated to a rate of EK 1 = Pta 0.5. There are no forward exchange facilities. There is a 2 percent levy on sales of foreign exchange, and exchange taxes rang ing from 8 percent to 35 percent, depending on the transac- tion, are levied on certain transfers abroad. In add i t ion, an exchange levy of 10 per mill applies to all foreign exchange transactions. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is exercised by the Bank of Equatorial Guinea, and exchange transactions must be carried out through that Bank. Import and export licenses originate from the Bank of Equatorial Gu inea and are issued by the Directorate-General of Trade and Enter- prise Promotion in the M in is try of Indus try and Trade. In addition to the Bank of Equitorial Gu inea, the Office of the President handles the approval or rejection of all invisible transactions. Import licenses are passed on by the Ministry of Industry and Trade to the importer and to the local bank at wh ich the importer is to open the necessary letters of credit. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th all countries are made in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All commercial imports require an import license. Licenses normally are issued w i th in the framework of an annual import program and a monthly license budget approved by the Technical Cabinet. The importer is allowed 30 days to open the necessary letters of credit at a local bank, after which the license may be canceled by the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. Imports must be made within three months from the date of the opening of the letters of credit. The Bank of Equatorial Guinea deter- mines whether an import should be charged against the 182 Spanish credit l ines, and forwards, if necessary, the licenses directly to FOCOEX (a Spanish institute for the promotion of foreign trade) for further processing. In pr inc ip le, foreign exchange is automatically made avail- able upon the arrival of the goods in Equatorial Guinea; most import paymen ts are effected under irrevocable letters of cred i t. All imports are subject to a prior payment covering the f u ll amount of the applicable import du ty. Final assessment of the import tax is made at the time of registration of the import payment upon declaration of the arrival of the goods. Existing import regulations apply to all imports by private firms as well as by state enterprises and the Government. Payments for Invisibles All payments for current inv is ib les require the prior approval of the Office of the President and of the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. Res iden ts1 are, in principle, granted foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of B ipk. 25,000 a person a calendar year for tourist travel abroad; only one trip a year is allowed for th is purpose. The standard allocation for bus iness travel is the equivalent of B ipk. 50,000 a trip, and only two trips a year are allowed. For study abroad and travel abroad for health reasons, foreign exchange is, in principle, granted to cover reasonable costs. Residents m ay, in principle, send fam i ly remittances up to 30 percent of their taxable earnings and wages. In pr inc ip le, enterprises classified as "of national interest" (see section on Capital, below) may transfer abroad freely up to 25 percent a year of the net inves tment income generated by their exporting activi- t ies. Any additional transfer is subject to a tax of 20 per- cent. The transfer abroad of net investment income by enterprises classified as "of preferential interest" is subject to a 20 percent tax. Any other enterprise with foreign capital par t ic ipa t ion may transfer net investment income, but such transfers are subject to a tax of 35 per- cent on the amount transferred. In the event of at least 30 percent of such net inves tment income being rein- vested in Equatorial Gu inea, the incidence of tax is reduced to one th ird its normal level. Interests on foreign loans u t i l ized for direct investment may be remitted s em i annu a l ly, subject to a tax of 8 percent. Branches and subsidiaries of foreign companies established in Equato- rial Gu inea may transfer to their parent companies abroad, on account of general expenses, an amount not exceeding 10 percent of the net annual profits of the branch or subs id iary. Transfers abroad in respect of patents, trademarks, and royalties are, in principle, permitted free ly, subject to prior review by the Bank of 1 Re s iden ts are de f ined as persons rema in ing in Equatorial Gu inea for more t h an six mon ths in a ca lendar year or for more than six months in two con secu t ive ca lendar years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Equatorial Guinea and to a tax of 25 percent of the amount remitted. Travelers may not take out more than B ipk. 1,000 a person in domestic bank notes. Residents may on ly take out foreign bank notes and coin acquired from the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. Nonresidents may take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount that they declared at the time of entry. Any excess, however, may be authorized if appropriate documentation is presented that the excess was obtained from a resident in a l aw f ul manner. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require an export license. Licenses are normally valid for three mon ths. All export proceeds must be surrendered to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea within 45 days of their receipt. Although exports can be freely effected by any licensed exporter, the Chambers of Commerce, Agr icu l ture, and Forestry of Bioko and Rio Mun i, which operate as pr iva te, non- profit, cooperative associations, have ju r isd ic t ion over the marketing of most agricultural exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea w i th in 15 days. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign bank notes and coin, but the import of domestic currency by travelers is limited to B ipk. 1,000 a person. Capital All imports and exports of capital require approval by the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. In addition, all exports and imports of capital by the State must be subject to a prior evaluation by the Technical Cabinet. Capital receipts in foreign currency must be surrendered to the Bank of Equatorial Guinea. The approval of a foreign loan contract automatically gives the right to the bor- rower to make payments abroad for interests, com- missions, and amortization specified in the approved contract. Without the explicit approval of the Bank of Equato- rial Guinea, no Equatorial Guinean companies or per- EQUATORIAL GUINEA sons residing in Equatorial Gu inea may hold accounts in foreign currency either in local or in foreign banks. Foreign residents in Equatorial Guinea are subject to the same regu la t ion only w i th regard to the foreign exchange acquired as a resu lt of their activities in Equatorial Gu inea; they may hold foreign currency accounts in local or in foreign banks w i th regard to foreign exchange acquired as a resu lt of activities carried out abroad. These provisions apply also w i th regard to the proceeds from exports and from inv is ib les. Under the Foreign Inves tment Law of November 17, 1979 three categories of foreign inves tment are recog- nized: ( 1) inves tmen ts "of national interest" (mainly in indu s t r ial or forestry enterprises engaged in the export trade); (2) inves tmen ts "of preferential interest" (mainly in enterprises engaged in import subs t i tu t ion); and (3) nonqua l i f ied inves tmen ts. Investments by nationals of or entities domiciled in South Africa are prohibited. All foreign inves tmen ts require the approval of the Presidency. If authorization is given by the Presidency, the Government or c i t izens of Equatorial Guinea may own stocks of foreign enterprises established in Equato- rial Gu inea not exceeding 25 percent of the capital. The foreign share in Equatorial Gu inean enterprises might exceed 50 percent of the capital. Foreign loans and capital u t i l ized for f inanc ing direct investment may be repatriated annu a l ly up to the amortization of fixed assets, free of taxes. The transfer abroad of funds from the sale of fixed assets and f inanc ial assets by alien residents or by nonresidents is, in principle, permitted as follows: 50 percent of the total amount realized net of taxes may be remitted abroad immediately and the balance in 24 equal mon th ly installments. The sale of real estate, however, requires prior approval. Gold All purchases and sales of minted gold and gold bars are cen tra l ized in the Bank of Equatorial Gu inea, wh ich also has a monopoly over the import and export of m in ted gold and gold bars. Except for jewe l ry, residents are not permitted to hold gold. Changes During 1983 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade sys tem. 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ethiopia is the E th iop ian B i r r, wh i ch is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the in terven t ion cu r rency, at the official rate of Br 2.07 = US$1. Buy ing and s e l l ing rates for certain other currencies are also o f f ic ia l ly posted; daily quotations by the N a t ion al Bank of Ethiopia (the central bank) are set on the basis of the official rate for the U .S. dollar and the prev ious day 's closing rate of the currency concerned against the U .S. dollar in London. The Na t ional Bank does not deal w i th the pub l ic; its transactions in U .S. dollars w i th the authorized dealers take place at the off ic ial rate. Au tho- rized dealers must observe the off ic ial rate for the U . S. dollar and prescribed commission charges, wh ich accrue to the Na t ional Bank, of 0.50 percent b u y i ng and 1.50 percent selling; in addition, they are authorized, but not obliged, to levy service charges for the ir own account of up to 0.25 percent buy ing and 0.75 percent selling and, for currencies other than the U .S. do l la r, to include the margin charges applied by the correspon- dents abroad. In practice, the au thor ized charges are u sua l ly levied. These commissions are applied also to the National Bank 's dealings w i th the Government and certain public sector en t i t ies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers require the approval of the Na t ional Bank to undertake forward exchange t ransac t ions. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange mu st be carried out through authorized dealers under the control of the National Bank. All paymen ts abroad require licenses issued by the Exchange Controller, whose office is a division of the Na t ional Bank. All exports are licensed by the Exchange Controller to ensure the surrender of the foreign exchange proceeds, and sh ipmen ts requ ire per- mits issued by that office. The M in is ter of Foreign Trade has statutory authority to p roh ib i t, res tr ic t, or regu la te imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are no rma l ly made in conver t ib le foreign exchange appropriate to the coun t ry of the recipient or in U .S. dollars. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency that is free ly convertible, or in any other acceptable fore ign cu r rency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may, subject to exchange control ap- proval, open nonresident accounts either in birr or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. Deposits to these accounts can only be made in foreign exchange. Bal- ances on nonresident foreign currency accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between nonres ident 184 accoun ts do not requ i re prior approva l. Members of the d ip loma t ic c omm u n i ty must use transferab le or nontrans- fe rab le birr accoun ts for paymen ts of local expenses. No res ident E th iop i an na t ional may ma in ta in a bank account abroad. A j o i nt ven tu re may be permitted to open foreign cu r rency, t ran s fe rab le or non t ran s fe rab le, birr accoun ts, for the pu rchase of raw ma te r ia l s, equ ipmen t, and spare parts not av a i l ab le in the local m a r k e t. As soon as the goods are received, documentary evidence of entry of the goods purchased w i th such funds mu st be subm i t ted to the Exchange Control D iv i s ion. In general, the accounts may only be replenished after such documents have been presen ted. Blocked accounts of nonres iden ts are m a in t a in ed w i th authorized b anks and are used to re ta in f u n ds in excess of Br 20,000 a r i s ing from d i s inve s tmen ts in Ethiopia (see section on C ap i t a l, be low ). Imports and Import Payments All imports from Sou th A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. Pay- men ts abroad for imports requ ire exchange licenses, wh i ch are ob t a in ab le upon p resen ta t ion of a va l id impo r te r 's l icense. Approval of app l ica t ions for ex- change l icenses is cond i t ional upon the provision of sa t isfac tory in fo rm a t ion on costs and payment terms and the subm i s s ion of evidence that adequate in su rance has been arranged w i th the E th iop i an In su r an ce Corporation, p a r t i c u l a r ly for goods imported under letters of credit. Foreign exchange is not made ava i lab le for a specified range of imported goods ( i n c l u d i ng alcoholic beverages and certain durab le consumer goods) considered to be nonessen t ial or r e ad i ly sub s t i tu tab le by domestic prod- uc ts. Exchange l icenses are granted in the currency appropriate to the coun t ry of o r ig in, or in any convertible cu r rency that may be reques ted. Paymen ts by letter of cred i t, m a il t r an s f e r, te legraph ic t ran s fe r, or cash against documen ts at s ight are all no rma l ly acceptable, but the Na t ional Bank must be consulted regarding imports on a cash ag a in st documen ts ba s i s. Goods that were pre- v iou s ly sub ject to advance deposit requ iremen ts (about 100 i tems, mos t ly consumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance bas is, and v i r t u a l ly no imports take place on th is bas is. Impo r ta t ion on supp l ie rs' credit is p roh ib i ted except for goods such as raw and intermediate ma te r ia ls, pha rmaceu t ica l s, and mach ine ry and transport equ ipm en t, in wh i ch case pr ior approval of the terms and cond i t ions of the credit is requ i red. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for inv i s ib l es requ ire exchange licenses. I n v i s i b l es connec ted w i th trade t ransac t ions are treated on the same bas is as the goods to w h i ch they relate. Foreign emp loyees may rem it mon th ly up to 30 percent of the ir net ea rn ings ( b ut on ly for the f i rst three years of the ir con tract if emp loyed by the p r iva te sector); they ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution may remit a max imum ranging between 40 percent and 50 percent of total net earnings dur ing the period of service and upon final departure. Other expatriate em- ployees may on final departure take out the same maximum amount, but not more than Br 20,000 in any one year. Foreign nationals who are not entitled to remittance facilities may, however, remit up to 30 per- cent of their net earnings for the education of their children. Persons traveling abroad are allowed foreign exchange equivalent to Br 125 a day for a max imum period of 30 days in any one calendar year if the jou rney is made for business purposes; for tour ism, persons 18 years of age or over are allowed up to the equ iva lent of Br 600 a year. Students are allowed foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Br 500 for study abroad, and Ethiopian nationals having dependents pu rsu ing higher studies in accredited institutions abroad are allowed to remit funds to meet school fees and reasonable expenses. Residents may remit premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 1962. Subject to certain l im i ts and to submission of evidence, persons may obtain foreign exchange for medical treatment and travel abroad. A f ter providing for payment of local taxes, foreign companies may, in principle, remit dividends on the ir invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Travelers may take with them a max imum of Br 10 in Ethiopian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are proh ib i ted. Exports of most cereals to any destination other than Djibouti also are prohibited. Exports of horsebeans are suspended. All commodity exports require permits from the Exchange Controller and some require, in addition, the approval of specified public bodies. When app ly ing for a perm i t, an exporter must specify the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. For exports on a c . i . f. basis, exporters must obtain fu ll insurance from the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation. The granting of a permit by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the Na t ional Bank, generally w i th in three months, and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from inv is ib les must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in Br 10 in Ethiopian currency. Foreign exchange must be declared by travel- ers on entry, and its re-export is subject to authorization, except for temporary visitors. Reconversion of birr mu st be supported by documentary evidence of prior exchange of foreign currency. Capital Controls over capital movements are designed to restrict outflows, to preclude an unwarranted accumu la- tion of external debt, and to keep the authorities informed of the coun try's external debt position. ETHIOPIA All receipts of capital in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Exchange control authorization is required, and registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities establishes evidence of receipt, wh ich is required for repatriation. All recog- nized and registered foreign inves tmen ts may be ter- minated on presentation of documents regarding liquida- tion and payment of all taxes and other liabilities. Subject to appropriate documentation, foreign busi- nessmen having nonregistered investments may transfer their capital abroad on l iqu ida t ion and f inal departure from E th iop ia, but may not transfer more than Br 20,000 in any one calendar year; funds in excess of th is amount must be deposited in a blocked account w i th an autho- rized bank. (This regulation does not apply to joint ventures established under the new foreign investment code.) Transfers by emigrants who had operated their own businesses are restricted to Br 20,000 in any one calendar year. Jo int ven tures are permitted between the Ethiopian pub l ic sector and foreign investors, w i th up to 49 percent foreign owne rsh ip, except in the precious metals, public u t i l i t ie s, te lecommun ica t ions, bank ing and insurance, transport, and domestic trade sectors. All applications for jo int ventures must be approved by the National Revo lu t ionary Development and Central Planning Su- preme Council and registered w i th the Domestic Trade Ministry; a m in imum of 25 percent of share capital is required to be paid before registration. Exemptions from income taxes are granted for up to five years for new projects, and for up to three years for extensions to ex is t ing projects. Imports of investment goods and spare parts for such ventures are also eligible for exemptions from customs du t ies and other specified import levies. Such ven tures must be limited to 25 years in dura t ion, but could be extended beyond this l im it w i th the approval of the Council of Ministers. Borrowing abroad requires exchange control approval and is restricted. Authorized banks may freely place their funds abroad, except on fixed-term deposit, but they may not acquire securities denominated in foreign currency w i thout National Bank permission. In addition, they need the prior approval of the National Bank to overdraw their accounts w i th foreign correspondents, to borrow funds abroad, or to accept deposits in foreign currency. Gold The ownership of personal jewelry of which gold or p l a t i n um forms a part is permitted. Unless specifically authorized by the Minister of M ines, Energy, and Water Resources, the possession or custody of 50 ounces or more of raw or refined gold or p la t inum, or of gold or p la t inum in the form of nugge ts, ores, or bu l l ion, is not permitted. New ly mined gold is sold by the Treasury to the Na t ional Bank. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry require exchange licenses issued by the Na t ional B ank. Such licenses are not normally 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Changes During 1983 Nonresident Accounts September 2. Permission was granted for jo int ventures to open foreign currency, tranferable or non- transferable, birr accounts for the purchase of raw materials, equ ipmen t, and spare parts not available in the local market. Capital January 22. Under a new foreign inves tment code, jo int ventures were permitted between the Ethiopian public sector and foreign investors, w i th up to 49 percent foreign ownership. Jo in t-ven ture investment was allowed in projects con tr ibu t ing to foreign exchange earnings, employment, and general economic and social development. Joint ventures were prohibited in the sectors of precious me ta ls, pub l ic u t i l i t ie s, telecommuni- cations, bank ing and insurance, transport, and domestic trade. All applications for jo int ventures were required to be approved by the Na t ional Revo lu t ionary Development and Central P lann ing Supreme Counc i l, and registered w i th the Domestic Trade M in is t ry; a m in imum of 25 per- cent of share capital should be paid before registration. Such ven tu res were exempt from income tax for five years in the case of new projects, and for three years in the case of major ex tens ions to ex is t ing projects; imports of inves tment goods and spare parts for such ventures were also made e l ig ib le for exemption from customs du t ies and other specified import levies. In add i t ion, it was specified that jo int ventures should be limited to 25 years in du ra t ion, but could be extended beyond this l im it w i th the approval of the Council of Ministers. September 2. It was specified that the ex is t ing regula- tion on ou tward cap i tal transfers on l iqu ida t ion of nonregistered investments would not apply to joint ven tures es tab l ished under the new investment code. 186 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position on December 3 J, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Fiji is the Fiji Dollar, the value of which is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Fiji dollar and a weighted basket of currencies of Fiji's most important trading partners. The exchange rate of the Fiji dollar in terms of the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, is fixed daily on the basis of quotations for the U .S. dollar and other currencies included in the basket. On December 31, 1983 the midpoint exchange for the Fiji dollar in terms of the U .S. dollar was F$l.04624 = US$1. The Central Monetary Authority of Fiji provides official quotations only for the U .S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On August 4, 1972 Fiji formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Monetary Authority, acting as agent of the Government. The Central Monetary Authority delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal import pay- ments. Except with the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority, residents of Fiji are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer all foreign curren- cies they receive.l The Ministry of Economic Devel- opment is responsible for the issue of import licenses, with the exception of those for gold, timber, rice, and dairy products. Import licenses for gold are issued by the Ministry of Finance, for timber by the M in is try of Forestry, and for rice and dairy products by the M in is t ry of Agriculture and Fisheries. Export licenses are issued by the Comptroller of Customs. Prescription of Currency Transactions with all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements with residents of any country may be made in Fiji currency through an External Account or in any foreign currency. Payments for exports to any destination outside Fiji may be made in Fiji currency from an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident2 may maintain an External Account in Fiji currency or a foreign currency account with an authorized bank; such accounts may be opened w i thout the specific approval of the Central Monetary Au tho r i ty. These accounts may be credited freely with interest 'Under Fiji's exchange control regu la t ions, fore ign currenc ies are all currencies other than the Fiji do l lar. 2 A nonresident is a person or firm whose coun t ry of normal dom ic i le or established residence is a country other than F i j i. As regards individuals, a resident of Fiji is a person who e i ther has l ived or in tends to continue l iv ing in Fiji for at least three years. payable on the account, w i th payments from other External Accoun ts, w i th the proceeds of sale of foreign currency or foreign coin by the account holder, and w i th Fiji currency notes which the account holder brought into Fiji or acquired by debit to an External Account or by the sale of foreign currency in the coun try du r ing a tempo- rary v is i t. External Accounts also may be credited with paymen ts by residents for wh ich either a general or a specific au tho r i ty has been g iven. External Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of Fiji, transfers to other Ex ternal Accoun ts, paymen ts in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange. Imports and Import Payments Imports of most goods are under open general license, a l though imports of a w ide range of goods, inc lud ing tea, mild steel bars, certain foods tu f fs, alcoholic bever- ages, kerosene stoves, safety matches, seed potatoes, p o l y v i n yl chloride p ipes, PVC - insu la ted electric wires, po lypropy lene bags and ropes, louvre w indow frames, shirts, wood screws, and incense sticks and chemicals used as raw materials in the ir manu fac tu re are subject to ind iv idual import l icens ing; licenses for some of these items are issued restrictively. Import prohibitions are imposed on a few commodities from all sources, ma in ly for secu r i ty, hea l th, or pub l ic policy reasons. Paymen ts for au thor ized imports are permitted upon application and subm iss ion of documen tary evidence to authorized dealers who may allow payments for goods wh ich have been imported under either a specific import license or an open general license. Au thor ized banks may allow advance payments for all imports, provided the goods are imported into Fiji w i t h in 90 days of the date the payment is made. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for inv is ib les are permitted e i ther under a delegated authority to banks or, where large amounts or nondelegated paymen ts are invo lved, upon application to the Central Monetary Au tho r i ty. Paymen ts may be made freely for all bona fide current transactions. Residents of Fiji t rave l ing to other coun tr ies may obtain from a bank, without reference to the Central Monetary Au thor i ty, a foreign currency travel a l lowance for private or business travel up to the equ iva lent of F$2,000 a person a journey. For an extended v is i t, a traveler may apply before his departure to the Central Monetary Au thor i ty for funds in excess of F$2,000 a person; applications may also be made from abroad through the traveler's b ank. There is no restriction on the number of trips a resident may make in any one year. Each traveler may take w i th him F$100 in Fiji currency and the equivalent of F$500 in other currencies, provided that these amoun ts are not in addition to travel allowances ap- proved by a bank or the Central Monetary Au tho r i ty. 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI Exports and Export Proceeds Specific licenses are required only for exports of rice, sugar, wheat bran, copra meal, certain lumber, scrap metals, certain animals, and a few other items. Irrespec- tive of any export licensing requirements, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of all goods w i th an f .o .b. value exceeding F$l,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Exporters are required to collect the proceeds of exports within six months of the date of exportation of the goods from Fiji, and may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months w i thout specific permission. All foreign curren- cies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer within one month of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in Fiji notes or foreign currency notes. Residents are required to sell their foreign currency holdings to an authorized dealer within one month of return. Capital The inflow of capital in any form requires specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority. Foreign investment in Fiji normally is expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign inves tment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. All capital outflows are subject to prior approval. Capital transfers by residents to finance direct investments require the specific permis- sion of the Central Monetary Authority and are permitted only where benefits will accrue to Fiji w i th in a reason- ably short period. Authority is delegated to banks operating in Fiji to approve transactions involving F$50,000 or more arising from (1) the conversion of foreign currency into Fiji currency, whether for credit to a resident account or to an External Account and (2) the crediting of an External Account with Fiji currency emanating from another External Account (including Fiji currency accounts of overseas banks). The banks must send confirmation of such inflows to the Central Monetary Au thor i ty. The banks must also have the approval of the Central Monetary Authority before granting any loans in excess of F$ 10,000 to a company or branch in Fiji (other than a bank) which is controlled directly or indirectly by persons resident outside Fiji or by individuals designated as nonresidents; however, the banks do not need such approval to lend up to F$10,000 to ind iv idual nonresi- dent customers who must repay such loans prior to their departure from Fiji. The banks may not lend foreign currency to any resident of Fiji without the specific permission of the Central Monetary Au tho r i ty. Residents require permission from the Central Monetary Authority before they may borrow foreign currency within Fiji or outside. 188 The transfer of inheritances and dowries due to nonresidents is permitted, as is the transfer of the proceeds from the sale of a house owned by a nonresi- dent. Residents of Fiji are allowed to make cash gifts to nonresidents equ iva lent to F$500 a donor a year; additional funds are permitted in compassionate cases. Emigrants may take out their entire net assets on departure. With the prior approval of the Central Monetary Au tho r i ty, residents are permitted to purchase foreign currency up to a m ax imum of F$5,000 a fam i ly a year to acquire foreign currency securities. The purchase of personal real property outside Fiji is not permitted. Special tax incentives are granted for investments in the tourist indus t ry, and an inves tment allowance similar to that for the hotel indus t ry is provided for large outlay investment projects supportive of the tourist industry. Portfolio investment in Fiji by nonresidents requires approval by the Central Monetary Authority; the pro- ceeds of the sale or realization of such investment may be repatriated .Banks require exchange control permis- sion to borrow abroad; they may accept deposits from nonresidents. Gold Residents may freely purchase, ho ld, and sell gold coin in Fiji but not gold bu l l ion. The export of gold coin, except num isma t ic coins and collectors' pieces, requires the specific permission of the Central Monetary Author- i ty. Gold imports from all sources, other than imports of gold coin, require a specific import license issued by the Ministry of Finance; these are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coin is free of customs duty and fiscal tax, while gold bu l l ion is exempt from customs duty but is subject to a fiscal tax of 7.5 percent. Gold jewelry is subject to a fiscal du ty of 10 percent but does not require any license when valued at less than F$200; samples of gold and gold jewe lry sent by foreign manufacturers require import licenses if over F$200 in value. Exports of gold jewelry do not require licenses and are free of export d u t y. All new ly mined gold is sold in Australia at free market prices. Commemorative gold coins of F$100, F$200, and F$250 have been issued; these are legal tender but do not normally circulate. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement March 8. The Fiji dollar depreciated by 2.76 percent against its basket of currencies, fo l low ing the devalua- tion of the Aus t ra l ian dollar. Imports and Import Payments November 11. As part of the Government budget for 1984 import du t ies were raised on a wide range of products, including meat, f i sh, milk powder, potatoes, onions, garlic, fresh vegetables, tea, spices, wheat and other cereals, rice, vegetable oils, infant foods, choco- late preparations, poultry and eggs, coffee, glues, candles, matches, a l um i n um and plastic u tens i ls, travel ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution goods, certain paper products, w indow frames, steel wire, corks, sanitary products, suitcases, ropes and twine, spirits, cement, radios, television sets, tape recorders, gramophones, and amp l if iers. In add i t ion, a number of items were removed from the du ty-free list, including portable typewriters, hair curlers and dryers, and clocks, and many items were added to the du ty-free list, namely, audiotapes, videogames, small microcom- puters, crystalware, bone ch ina, leather bags and purses, display materials, and wet su i ts. Capital November 11. Tax incentives were introduced w i th effect from Janua ry 1, 1984 for investments in the tourist indus try, and an inves tment allowance similar to that for the hotel indus try was granted for a large outlay of investment to projects supportive of the tourist indus t ry. FIJI 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position on December 31, 1983} Exchange Arrangement The currency of Finland is the F inn ish Ma rkka. The external value of the markka is defined in terms of an index reflecting a weighted average of the exchange rates of the currencies most important for F in land 's foreign trade. These are defined as the currencies of countries that have accounted for not less than 1 percent of F in land's commodity imports and exports in each of the preceding three calendar years; if a trading partner's currency is not regularly quoted by the Suomen Pankki (Finlands Bank), the rate used for that currency is the one in which trade w i th that country is common ly denom ina ted .l The value of the exchange rate index is maintained by the Suomen Pankki w i t h in a margin established by the Cabinet; since October 1982 the range has been 121.9-127.5 (1974 = 100). The actual level of the index has been 125.0 since November 1982. The Suomen Pankki calculates the currency index on a da i ly basis, but only mon th ly averages of the index numbe rs are pub l ished .2 Daily (noon) buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, are quoted by the Suomen Pankki. On December 31, 1983 the rates were Fmk 5.802 and Fmk 5.818 per US$1, respectively. The rates for the U .S. dollar are applicable also to clearing dollars. Buy ing and selling rates for the clearing ruble are based on the rates of the State Bank of the U . S . S .R. for the U .S. dollar against the ruble. Quota- tions for other currencies are based on market cross rates. There are no exchange taxes or subs id ies. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, w i th residents, and w i th nonresident banks in U .S. dollars and other convertible currencies. Forward prem iums and discounts quoted by authorized banks reflect interest rate differences in various currencies. Finland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2 , 3, and 4, of the Fund 's Articles of Agreement, as from September 25, 1979. Administration of Control The Suomen Pankki operates the exchange control system, delegating authority to the authorized exchange dealers (ma in ly commercial banks ). Import and export licensing is administered by the Export and Import Permits Office (a un it subordinate to the M in is t ry of Trade and Indus try), wh ich is headed by a Board 'On Janua ry 1, 1984, the composition of the o f f ic ial currency index was changed to inc lude only convertible currencies impor tant to F in land 's foreign trade; th is step involved the exc lus ion of the Soviet ruble and the d is tr ibu t ion of its former we ight proportionately among the other convertible currencies in the baske t. In add i t ion, w i th e f fect from the same date, the weights for ca lcu la t ing the currency index were redefined as the trade weights in a recent period, in contrast to the previous weight structure us ing trade shares w i th a f ix ed base (1974 ). 2Beg inn ing January 1, 1984, the currency index numbe rs are published on a da i ly basis. 190 composed of government o f f ic ia l s, inc lud ing a represen- tative of the Suomen Pankk i. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are d iv ided in to two groups: the bilateral countries3 and the convertible currency coun tr ies (all others). Settlements w i th the b i la teral coun tr ies must be made in the currency of the agreement (the clearing ruble for the U .S .S .R ., the clearing U . S. do l lar for Hunga ry and Bu lgar ia, and the c lear ing F i n n i sh markka for the German Democratic Repub l ic ). Se t t lemen ts w i th the convertible currency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accoun ts. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Conver t ib le Accoun ts, Restricted Accounts, and Capital Accoun t s. Convertible Accounts are held by nonresidents in F inn ish ma rkkaa or in convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited by an authorized bank with amoun ts transferred from other Convertible Accounts, w i th Finnish currency received directly from a foreign bank or imported in to F i n l a n d, w i th amoun ts wh ich the bank wou ld be au thor ized to transfer abroad, with amoun ts of convertible currency received by the bank, and w i th in terest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accoun ts may be debited freely and balances may be transferred abroad to any coun t ry. Restricted Accounts are held by residents of countries w i th wh ich F in land has b i la teral paymen ts arrangements, and are des igna ted according to the holder's country of residence. They may be held in F inn ish markkaa or the appropriate b i la teral paymen ts agreement currency. They may be credited by an authorized bank with amoun ts transferred from Convertible Accounts and from Res tr ic ted Accoun ts related to the same country. The accounts may also be credited w i th Finnish currency received from a bank in the coun t ry indicated on the accoun t, w i th amoun ts w h i ch the bank is authorized to receive to the credit of a Restricted Account related to the coun try indicated on the account, w i th currency surrendered to the bank and restricted to the country indicated on the accoun t, and w i th interest accrued on f u n ds held in the accoun ts. These accounts may be debited free ly and balances may be transferred to the bilateral coun try concerned. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonresident ac- coun ts. They are held in markkaa and are intended 3F i n l a nd m a i n t a i ns b i l a t e r al p aym en ts agreements w i th Bu lgar ia, Czecho s lovak ia, the Ge rman Democratic R e p u b l i c, H u n g a r y, Poland, and the U .S .S .R. (T ransac t ions w i th Czechoslovakia and Poland have, how ev e r, been settled in f ree ly conve r t ib le U .S. dollars since 1970 und er agreemen ts reached separately for each year. The bilateral account w i th Mongo l ia is also kept in conve r t ib le U .S. do l lars .) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution primarily for payments of a capital na ture. The assign- ment of a Capital Account to another nonresident and the transfer abroad of funds held in such an account may be effected (with some minor exceptions) only w i th the permission of the Suomen Pankki. A monetary ins t i tu- tion may credit a Capital Account w i th the purchase price of assets other than foreign securities bought from the holder by a resident, w i th funds received as an inheritance, and w i th redemption paymen ts and interest on matured bonds and debentures quoted on the He ls inki Stock Exchange. These accounts may also be credited with rent on property owned in Finland by the holder of the account, w i th proceeds from other assets belonging to the holder of the account and managed by the monetary ins t i tu t ion w i th wh i ch the account is he ld, w i th the amount of a loan based on a contract g ran t ing to a nonresident a loan not exceeding Fmk 50,000 in v a lu e4 to be utilized in F in land, and w i th interest accrued on funds held in the account. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for noncom- mercial current expenses in Finland of and for account of the holder, and funds in Capital Accoun ts may be used for capital payments when the transaction does not require authorization or is authorized for transferable funds. The Suomen Pankki generally grants permission for transfer abroad of funds deposited in Capital Ac- counts to an account holder who has resided abroad during the last calendar year and who con t inues to do so. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported free of license from the multilateral countries, provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in those coun tr ies. How- ever, certain goods5 may be imported from the mu l t i la t- eral area under a global quota sys tem, wh ich provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amoun ts of quotas for specified commodity groups. The on ly com- modities still subject to restrictions for the mu l t i la te ral area are certain agricultural commodities and fue ls and petroleum products. With the exception of the commodities to wh ich reference was made in the preceding paragraph, import licenses are not required for most commodities or ig ina t- ing in and purchased from the U . S . S .R ., or o r ig ina t ing in and purchased from the five countries w i th wh ich agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade have been concluded (Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Repub l ic, Hunga ry, and Po- land). All imports of commodities originating in coun- tries or areas not classified in either the mu l t i la teral area or the bilateral area6 require ind iv idual licenses. The State Granary is the main agency for the import of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products of these gra ins for 4The l im it on such loans has,been raised to Fmk 250,000 w i th e f f e ct from Janua ry 1, 1984. 5Agr icu l turai commodities, f i s h, fu e ls and other pe tro leum p roduc ts, and unw rought gold and s i lve r. Inc lud ing Ta iwant and the Democratic People's R e p u b l ic of Korea. tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 52. FINLAND human consump t ion, but ind iv idual importers may also import these commodities under license. There is a state monopoly for imports of alcoholic beverages. Exchange is granted by authorized banks for all permitted imports on presentation of an application form, the import license (when required for imports from countries w i th nonconvertible currencies), and the orig- inal commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the coun try or there is su f f ic ient evidence to guarantee their importation. Payment for imports must be made w i th in 12 months after the date of customs clearance of the goods; if the period of suppliers' credit exceeds 6 months, the credit is subject to an "overtime fee," un less specially authorized by the Suomen Pankki; if the import payment is made to the seller through foreign f inanc ing credit, the credit period may not exceed 6 mon ths. The Suomen Pankki applies quotas w i t h in wh ich the banks can negotiate credits from foreign banks to finance imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments in respect of authorized invisible trans- actions are not restricted. The authorized banks have general permission to effect payments for most current inv is ib les, w i th a few exceptions relating to insurance, subject in some cases to a max imum allowance or other cond i t ions; for amounts in excess of the standard allowances and for purposes for wh ich no standard allowances have been set, exchange licenses are granted freely by the Suomen Pankki. All contracts involving payments to nonresidents for wh ich general permission has not been granted must be submitted to the Suomen Pankki for approval. For minor payments, authorized banks may provide foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 2,000 a calendar mon th for each remitter. A F inn ish resident trave l ing abroad may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 5,000 a t r ip .7 Once abroad a traveler may w i thdraw foreign exchange on a bank account passbook or check issued by a Finnish monetary institution, provided that the u t i l ized amount of his travel allocation does not exceed a total of Fmk 5,000. A resident traveler may use a credit card abroad for travel services and settle the transaction after his re turn. Nonresident travelers may take out Fmk 5,000 a trip in Finnish notes and coin and any amount in foreign notes and coin declared upon entry; resident travelers may take out foreign or domestic cu r rency, or any comb ina t ion of these, up to Fmk 5,000, but in ne i ther case may notes of a denomination higher than Fmk 100 be exported.8 For all types of travel, bona fide applications for additional amoun ts of foreign exchange are approved by the Suomen Pankk i. 7On J a n u a ry 1, 1984, the m a x im um amount of foreign exchange that cou ld be f r e e ly exported or imported was raised to Fmk 10,000 a person a t r i p. KOn J a n u a ry 1, 1984, the prov is ion p roh ib i t ing the export (as well as the impo r t) of 500 ma rkka notes was abo l ished. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Exports and Export Proceeds Sales of arms are strictly controlled. Exports to countries that are not in the convertible area and that are outside the scope of agreements on the reciprocal removal of obstacles to trade are allocated by means of bilateral trade arrangements. Foreign exchange acquired through commodity exports need not be surrendered to the Suomen Pankki or to an authorized exchange dealer. Exporters are required to repatriate foreign exchange proceeds w i th in eight days of collection, which may then be held in a foreign currency account w i th an authorized bank in Finland or be converted into domestic currency. Export licenses are required only for exports of scrap metal. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from current inv is ib les need not be surrendered but must be repatriated w i th in eight days of collection. The funds may be held in a foreign currency account in Finland. Any unu t i l ized foreign bank notes and traveler's checks must be repatriated, but these are exempt from the repatriation requirement up to Fmk 5,000 for each resident holder. The import of Finnish and foreign means of payment is unrestricted, w i th the exception of imports of notes w i th a nominal value above Fmk 100, which are prohibited.9 Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Suomen Pankki. Inheritances are transferred automatically to the beneficiaries. Per- sons who have resided outside Finland dur ing the last calendar year and continue to do so are allowed to transfer abroad their assets in Finland in one lump sum, subject to the prior approval of the Suomen Pankki. Nonresidents may purchase bonds, debentures, or shares quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange through an authorized bank, against convertible currencies, or by debiting a Convertible Accoun t. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are deposited in the custody of the authorized bank, the nonresident purchaser is per- mitted to sell the securities on the He ls inki Stock Exchange through the authorized bank and to repatriate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible currency. The acquisition of shares, bonds, and debentures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange w i th funds from Capital Accounts is also permitted au toma t ica l ly if they are acquired by an authorized bank, but proceeds from the sale of such securities may not be transferred abroad w i thout the permission of the Suomen Pankki. Any other transactions in securities, and the export of securities that involve nonresident interests, require approval. If the securities were acquired w i th convertible foreign ex- change or w i th markkaa from a Convertible Accoun t, approval for their export can be obtained freely. 9On January 1, 1984, the provision proh ib i t ing the import (as we ll as the export) of 500 markka notes was abolished. 192 Inward direct inves tmen ts that involve participation of more than 20 percent in the share capital of a Finnish enterprise requires the approval of the Council of State. Such approval is u su a l ly granted, w i th the exception of investments in the forest and mining industries and in certain t rad i t iona l ly regulated activities. The transfer of direct inves tment capital needs authorization by the Suomen Pankk i. Such authorization is u sua l ly granted by the Bank, if the unde r ly ing investment has been ap- proved by the Council of State. Repatriation of direct investment is subject to the approval of the Suomen Pankk i, wh ich is freely g iven. Outward transfers of cap i ta l, inc lud ing transfers of direct investment by residents, require ind iv idu al approval by the Suomen Pankk i. Proceeds from the sale of securities and real property must be repatriated under the general rule of repatria- t ion. Subject to certain regu la t ions, authorized banks and insurance companies have permission to purchase foreign and Finnish securities issued abroad. Purchases of real estate abroad are authorized up to a l im it of Fmk 250,OOO10 a person, subject to the approval of the Suomen Pankk i, wh ich is granted l ibera l ly. The upper l im it on shares en t i t l ing part-time use of a second house abroad is Fmk 75,000. F inn ish emigrants are generally permitted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 250,OOO11 a person or, in the case of emigrating fam i l ies, Fmk 150,000 a person in addition to the basic tourist travel allowance. There is an automatic exchange allowance of up to Fmk 10,000 a calendar year for each donor for gifts and contributions to nonresidents. Foreign currency borrowing by Finnish residents, par t icu lar ly in the form of short-term or long-term f inanc ial credits, inc lud ing bond issues abroad, requires the specific approval of the Suomen Pankki, which exercises surve i l lance over the terms and t im ing. Lend- ing to nonresidents is generally restricted to export credits. No permission is needed for customary export credits. Med ium- term and long-term borrowing abroad, other than borrowing by the State or import credits, is in some cases subject to deposit requirements by the Suomen Pankk i, wh ich also sets the terms for such loans. Gold Residents may freely ho ld, b u y, and sell gold in any form in F in land. Imports of unw rought gold in any form other than jewe l ry require licenses issued by the Export and Import Permits Office; such licenses are not nor- ma l ly granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus tr ial users. The global quota list contains a quota for indus tr ial gold, for which licenses are granted free ly. l ( )On December 2, 1983, the l im it on the purchase of foreign exchange for the purchase of a second home abroad was raised from Fmk 250,000 to Fmk 300,000, w i th effect from Janua ry 1, 1984. ' ' On December 2, 1983, the m a x im um amount of foreign ex- change a l lowed for i n d i v i d u al F i n n i sh em ig ran ts was increased from Fmk 250,000 to Fmk 300,000, w i th effect from Janua ry 1, 1984. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement March 11. Authorization was granted for Finnish residents generally to conclude forward exchange con- tracts with foreign banks invo lv ing the exchange of one foreign currency for another for transactions permitted under the foreign exchange regulations. May 27. Forward quotations of the Soviet ruble by the Suomen Pankki were d iscon t inued, leav ing th is function to the authorized commercial banks. June 6. Finnish enterprises were generally allowed to conclude financial (interest rate or exchange rate) fu tu res contracts on financial fu tu res markets, as well as to transfer abroad margin payments in connection w i th such contracts. December 16. It was announced tha t, effec t ive Jan- uary 1, 1984, the composition of the official currency index would be changed such that only convertible currencies important to F in land's foreign trade would be included. The Soviet ruble would thus be om i t ted, and its former share would be distributed proportionately among the other currencies in the baske t. In add i t ion, with effect from January 1, 1984, the we igh ts for the currency index would reflect trade we igh ts in a recent period, in contrast to the previous weight structure us ing trade shares w i th a fixed base (1974). Prescription of Currency January I. The bilateral payments agreement be- tween Finland and the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina was terminated. September I. The F inn ish markka replaced the U .S. dollar as the clearing currency in the bilateral paymen ts FINLAND arrangement between the German Democratic Republic and Finland w i th a trans i t ional period through Decem- ber 1, 1983. Imports and Import Payments August 30. The ma tur i ty l im it on import-financing credit was raised from three months to six months. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles November 18. With effect from Janua ry 1, 1984, in- creases were announced in the limits on specified invisible paymen ts, as follows: (a) the l im it on travel exchange was raised from the equivalent of Fmk 5,000 to Fmk 10,000; (b) the l im it on additional travel exchange for students was increased from the equivalent of Fmk 3,000 to Fmk 5,000 a month; and (c) the l im it on m inor paymen ts was raised from the equivalent of Fmk 2,000 to Fmk 5,000. December 8. It was announced tha t, effective Jan- uary 1, 1984, the proh ib i t ion of the export and import of 500 markka notes was l i f ted, and that the max imum value of foreign exchange that could be freely exported and imported was raised from the equ iva lent of Fmk 5,000 to Fmk 10,000 a person a t r ip. Capital November 18. Exchange controls and l im i ts were eased, w i th effect from Janua ry 1, 1984 as follows: (a) the l im it on loans to nonresident c i t izens for the purchase of a dwe l l ing place in Finland was abolished; and (b) the m a x im um amount of foreign exchange for an ind iv idual em ig ra t ing from F in land and the l im it on the purchase of foreign exchange for the purchase of a second home abroad were raised in each case from the equ iv a l ent of Fmk 250,000 to Fmk 300,000. 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the Franc. France partici- pates w i th Be lg ium, Denmark, the Federal Repub l ic of Germany, Ireland, I ta ly, Luxembourg, and the Nether- lands in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance w i th this agreement, France ma in ta ins the spot exchange rates between the franc and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Un i ts (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of France (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in un l im i ted amoun ts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1983 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 Netherlands guilders 100 Irish pounds 100 I ta l ian lire Francs Upper l im it Lower l im it 5.6590 86.3650 313.6300 278.3500 968.8500 0.5201 14.9700 82.5650 299.8500 266.1000 926.2500 0.4613 The participants in the EMS are not ma in ta in ing the exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed l im i t s. However, in order to ensure a proper fun c t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out f lu c tu a- tions in exchange rates, the in terven t ion currencies being each other's and the U .S. dollar. Buy ing and selling rates for 20 foreign currencies are quoted da i ly on the basis of market ra te s .! On December 30, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates for the U . S. dollar were F 8.3420 and F 8.3530, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the currencies of the overseas territories and to the currencies of the countries that are linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Accoun t2 as fo l lows: (1) In the overseas territories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia and Wallis and Fu tuna Islands, the currency used is the CFP f ranc, wh ich has a f ixed par i ty w i th the 'Au s t r ian s c h i l l i n g s, Be lg ian f r an c s, Canad ian do l la r s, D an i sh kroner, deutsche ma rk, D j ibou ti f ranc s, F i n n i sh m a rkk a a, Greek drachmas, Irish pounds, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese y en, N e th e r l ands gu i lde rs, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds s t e r l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Sw iss f r an c s, U . S. do l la rs, and za'ires. 2Ben in, Cameroon, Central A f r ican R epub l i c, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, M a l i, N ige r, Senega l, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta. 194 franc of CFPF 1 = F 0.055. (2) Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the currencies of the Operations Account countries (see footnote 2). These rates are CFAF 1 = F 0.02 for the CFA franc, which circulates in Ben in, Cameroon, the Central African Repub l ic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, N ige r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta, and MF 1 = F 0.01 for the Mali franc. Authorized banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Authorized banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may purchase foreign exchange for- ward in respect of specified transactions. Forward exchange cover is prohibited for term transactions on commodity markets; and forward cover in respect of spot transactions in commodities is limited to two days, with the obligation to redeem foreign exchange receipts after the eight-day period. France forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations are applicable in all territories of the French Repub l ic, that is, in continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments (Guade- loupe, Ma r t in ique, French Gu iana, Reunion, and St. Pierre and M ique lon), Mayotte, and the three Overseas Territories (Wallis and Fu tuna Islands, New Caledonia, and French Polynesia). No exchange control is applied in relation to Monaco or the Operations Account countries (see footnote 2); payments between France and these countries are free of restriction on the part of France and take place at fixed exchange rates. All other countries are considered foreign countries for exchange control purposes; all payments between France and foreign countries are subject to exchange control. For imports and exports of gold, the Operations Account countries are also considered foreign countries. The exchange control regulations include controls over inward and outward direct investment and other borrowing abroad on the basis of Decree No. 68-1021, of November 24, 1968. This decree is applicable to f inanc ial relations w i th all countries except those belong- ing to the French Franc Zone ( i .e ., Operations Account countries). Certain exchange operations are free from any prior authorization; these include direct investment coming from and going to EEC countries, which are nevertheless submitted to prior notification. Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and the Budget is the coordinating ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution agency for financial relations with foreign countries. It is responsible for exchange control and all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and to borrow- ing abroad, unless they relate to real estate companies, in which case the Bank of France screens applications. The Directorate of the Treasury also evaluates the balance of payments, together with the Bank of France, wh ich collects the data for its compilation. Certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France, including the authority to license imports and exports of gold. Other exchange control powers have been delegated to the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes and, in the Overseas Departments and Territories, to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The Directorate of Insurance of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and the Budget has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, etc. The execution of all transfers has been delegated to authorized banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls, w i th in the framework of commercial policy directives given by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations (DREE); the Directorate- General also issues import and export licenses, and is responsible for any litigation relating to the exchange regulations. Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the appropriate m in is try or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of Industry has certain responsibilities in respect of licensing contracts and contracts relating to technical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the Operations Account countries may be made in francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury.3 Settlements w i th all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries or through nonresident Foreign Accounts in Francs. Importers and exporters are free to invoice in any currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident account in francs may be freely opened by an authorized bank for nonresidents, inc lud ing French nationals (other than officials) who have been residing abroad for at least two years. All overdrafts and advances on nonresident-held franc accounts are subject to general or specific permission. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be freely credited with (1) the franc proceeds of the spot or forward sale of foreign currencies on the exchange market by a nonresi- dent; (2) the franc proceeds of the sale of foreign bank notes to an authorized bank by a nonresident bank or a FRANCE traveler; (3) the franc equivalent of an authorized bank's arbitrage in foreign currencies on a foreign market; (4) French bank notes (and those of the Operations Account countries) mailed direct from abroad to the main office of the Bank of France by an authorized bank's foreign correspondents; (5) transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) any authorized payment by a resident to a nonresident, inc lud ing interest on balances in Foreign Accounts in Francs; (7) the pro- ceeds, income, and amortization from French and foreign securities held in a foreign dossier in France, and the proceeds of the sale on a French stock exchange of securities denominated in French francs, including secu- rities held by authorized banks; (8) liquidation proceeds of nonresident-held direct investments;4 and (9) the proceeds of the sale, through the intermediation of a notary pub l ic, of nonresident-owned real estate to phys- ical or ju r id ical persons of foreign nationality: should the nonresident be a French national, he or she must show proof that the property was originally purchased by debiting a foreign account or by inward transfer of foreign exchange. These accounts may be freely debited for (1) spot purchases of any foreign currency on the exchange market by a nonresident; (2) the purchase by a nonresi- dent of foreign bank notes or withdrawals in French bank notes; (3) the equivalent in francs of arbitrage abroad in foreign currencies by an authorized bank; (4) French bank notes (and those of Operations Account countries) mailed by authorized banks direct to their foreign correspondents; (5) transfers to other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) approved direct investment in France by nonresidents (see footnote 4); (7) purchases of real estate from residents, through the intermediation of a notary public; (8) purchases in France of listed French or foreign securities; (9) interest on and repayment of loans granted in accordance w i th the relevant regulations by residents; (10) any payment by a nonresident to a resident; and (11) repayment of consumer and real estate loans by French banks for foreigners living in France. If francs accruing to a nonresident are not transferable, or are not immediately transferable, they may be credited to a Suspense Account in Francs in the name of the beneficiary. The unremittable funds of emigrants of French nationality must be retained in resident accounts (comptes interieurs); emigrants of foreign nationality become nonresidents immediately and, therefore, may take out all of their assets upon departure. Diplomatic personnel working in France may hold resident and nonresident accounts. In addition, nonresidents may hold foreign currency accounts w i th French and foreign- owned banks. Imports and Import Payments Goods originating in and shipped from other countries that are accorded privileged treatment in respect of trade Comprising the ins t i tu tes of issue of the Operations Account countries and the Overseas Institute of Issue (for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Mayotte, and Wallis and Fu tuna Islands). 4Subject to comp l iance w i th the provisions of Decree No. 68-1021 of November 24, 1968, as amended by Decree No. 71-144 of February 22, 1971 and Decree No. 80-618 of August 4, 1980. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE transactions (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are generally admitted free of quan t i ta t ive restric- tions and ind iv idual licenses. Imports of goods wh ich originate in other countries and are not covered by French import liberalization require ind iv idual licenses. Some imports from non-EC countries are subject to m in imum prices; these require an adm in is t ra t ive visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Certain imports require certificates of or ig in. For import control purposes, countries other than those that are accorded privileged trea tment are d iv ided into four groups according to the ex tent of import liberalization: (1) the former OEEC countries, the ir dependent territories and certain former dependent ter- ritories, Andorra, Canada, Egyp t, Ethiopia, F i j i, Fin- land, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, L iber ia, Sudan, Syr ian Arab Republic, the Un i ted States, Western Samoa, and Yugoslavia; (2) some specified coun tr ies ;5 (3) the East- ern European countries (A lban ia, Bu lga r ia, Czecho- slovakia, Hunga ry, Poland, Roman ia, and the U . S . S .R . ), the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, and Mongolia; and (4) the German Democratic Repub l ic. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one country may be imported freely from another coun t ry, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the same degree of liberalization. Imports of practically all indus tr ial products from countries in group ( 1) are free of qu an t i t a t ive restric- tions, but restrictions are applied to a number of agricultural and electronic products; there is re la t ive ly little difference between the l is ts of goods wh i ch may be imported freely from d ifferent countries in th is group, these differences re la t ing m a in ly to Hong Kong. Imports of certain industrial products from countries in group (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain additional indu s t r ial products from group (3) countries. For some commod i t ies, there are global quotas that are allocated annu a l ly (petroleum and petro- leum products) or sem iannua l ly and app ly to all coun- tries (other than those that have b i la tera l ly negotiated quotas or receive privileged treatment). Imports from all countries of certain agr icu l tural items and certain raw materials are free of quan t i ta t ive restrictions. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Ag r icu l tu ral Policy of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regu la t ions are also applied to imports from non-EC coun tr ies of most other agr icu l tural and livestock p roduc ts. A fghan i s tan, A rg en t in a, A u s t r a l i a, B h u t a n, B o l i v i a, B r a z i l, Burma, Chile, Colombia, Costa R ica, Cuba, Dom in i c an R e p u b l i c, Ecuador, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Ha i t i, Hondu ras, Ind i a, Indone s ia, Islamic Repub l ic of Iran, Iraq, Japan, Repub l ic of Korea, L ibyan A rab Jamah ir iya, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, N ica ragua, Pak i s tan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Ph i l ipp ine s, Saudi A r ab i a, Sou th A f r i c a, Sri Lanka, Tha i land, U r u g u a y, Venezue la. Yemen A rab R e p u b l i c, and People's Democratic Repub l ic of Yemen. 196 Liberalized imports are not subject to trade controls, but do requ ire a cus toms document that constitutes the customs declaration. However, as an exchange control measure, the dom ic i l ia t ion (registration) of the import transaction at an authorized bank may be prescribed. For some liberalized imports, an adm in is tra t ive visa issued by the Central Customs Adm in is tra t ion or by the appropriate m in i s t ry is required on an import declara- t ion. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Commun i ty require such administrative visas when or ig ina t ing in non-ECSC countries. Other imports generally require ind iv idual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas determined on an ind iv idu al commodity basis or for a group of commod i t ies and are applicable to specified countries or areas in accordance w i th trade agreements or an import p lan drawn up for a def in i te period. Imports of some products mu st pass th rough designated customs offices. Documen ts accompany ing goods passing through cus- toms must be w r i t ten or translated into French. Paymen ts for imports from foreign countries must be made by credit to a Foreign Account in Francs or with foreign currency purchased in the French exchange ma rke t. Import transactions relating to foreign countries and va lued at F 150,000 or more must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank, to wh ich the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all paymen ts related to the import must be made. The amoun ts that may be transferred through postal channels are not subject to l im i t a t i o n, but in practice, the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion does not make import payments valued at over F 150,000, as it does not undertake domiciliation. Au tho r ized banks may w i thout special authorization perm it advance paymen ts to be made that are provided for in the commerc ial contract, up to 30 percent of the price for cap i tal goods and up to 10 percent for all other goods. H igher advance paymen ts require prior approval by the Cus toms Adm in i s t r a t ion. For all imports, import- ers may purchase spot foreign currency two working days before u t i l i z a t i o n; u t i l i z a t ion cannot take place before the payment f a l ls due. There is no restriction on the use of supp l ie rs' cred i t. Forward cover for import paymen ts is l im i ted to specified commodities, namely, green coffee, r ice, hides and sk in s, ha irs, wool, cotton, and cotton was te. Forward cover must not exceed three mon ths and mu st be carried out in the currency stipulated in the contract and be te rm ina ted not later than the day of the se t t lemen t; shou ld settlement be effected before the exp ira t ion of three mon th s, the operation must be canceled for the rema in ing period. If the settlement of the contract is deferred, the forward covering can be extended for a m ax imum of eight days without prior au tho r iza t ion. In cases where the contract is canceled, the covering operation must be terminated immediately. If the cance l la t ion results in a foreign exchange profit, the bank invo lved must inform the monetary authorities. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles to foreign countries are controlled but are not restricted as to amount. If ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution jus t ify ing documents are presented and certain exchange control requirements are met, authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments for many categories of current invisibles w i thout any l im i ta t ion; for certain other categories of current inv is ib les, estab- lished limits have been set. Applications for all other payments for invisibles and for amoun ts in excess of established limits are referred to the Bank of France to prevent unauthorized capital transfers; such applications are approved if a genu ine current payment is involved. Any resident may make remittances abroad up to the equivalent of F 1,500 a person each quarter, provided that the transfers do not serve as a means of accumu la t- ing funds abroad. Outward remittances for fam i ly sup- port abroad are limited to the equ iva lent of F 3,000 a person a mon th; transfers in excess of th is amount require the approval of the Bank of France or the CCCE. Transfers of donations to nonresidents are subject to authorization by the Bank of France. Payments that may be authorized w i thout l im i ta t ion by authorized banks include those related to approved trade transactions; income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties; bank ing commis- sions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes; specified insurance paymen ts; fees to med ical doctors, lawyers, etc.; alimony in accordance w i th court deci- sions; and net salaries or wages of foreigners employed in France, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months from the date of paymen t. Irrespective of the exchange control regu la t ions, cer- tain transactions between persons or f i rms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these inc lude certain transactions relating to insurance, re insurance, and road and river transport. The basic exchange allocation for tour ist travel to foreign countries by residents (defined for this purpose as inc lud ing residents of Operations Account countries) is the equivalent of F 5,000 a person a trip, wh ich may be taken up for any number of trips a year. The basic allocation for business travel is the same p lus the equivalent of F 1,000 a person a day in French francs or foreign currency. Applications for exchange in excess of the basic allowance for bus iness travel may be approved by the Bank of France or the CCCE, provided that no capital outflow is involved. Any unutilized foreign currency in excess of the equ iva lent of F 1,000 must be surrendered w i th in one month upon return to France. Applications for travel exchange cannot be submitted earlier than one month before departure. The use abroad of credit cards issued in France is restricted for the settlement of business travel expenditures. Resident travelers may freely take out the equ iva lent of F 5,000 in means of paymen ts acquired in the exchange market against a tourist travel allocation. Nonresident travelers may no t, in p r inc ip le, take out more than the equivalent of F 5,000 in foreign bank notes, unless these were declared upon entry and the amount to be taken out does not exceed that imported m i n us any amounts exchanged for francs p lus any FRANCE reconversion of francs into foreign currencies. However, nonresident travelers may freely take out any other means of payment established in their name abroad; in add i t ion, subject to the submission of an authorized b ank 's declaration, they may take out any amount in foreign bank notes or foreign currency traveler's checks acquired in France from an authorized bank by conver- sion of foreign exchange in the French exchange market, by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs, or by debit to a foreign currency account. Resident travelers to foreign countries may take out F 5,000 in French bank notes. These bank notes may be used abroad, and any amount taken out is charged against the basic exchange allocation of F 5,000. Nonresident travelers may take out F 5,000 in French bank notes and may reconvert into foreign currency in the French exchange market any French bank notes up to F 5,000 obtained by the conversion in that market of foreign means of payment that they declared upon entry or obtained by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; any rema in ing French bank notes must be deposited w i th the customs against issuance of a receipt. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may be exported only under a special license. Some other exports also require ind iv idual licenses, but if the total va lue does not exceed F 1,000 (F 5,000 for art objects or collectors' i tems), these exports may be permitted w i thout any fo rma l i ty, subject to certain exceptions. Exports to foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Payment must be received through the exchange market. The repatriation6 and, where appropriate, the surrender by sale in the exchange market of proceeds from exports to foreign countries are required not later than 15 days from export deliveries. Small business exporters may be authorized by the Bank of France to deposit up to 5 percent of export receipts or F 30,000 a month, whichever is higher, in foreign currency ac- counts. Authorized banks may freely extend foreign currency advances to exporters; such advances and their repayment may be settled in the exchange market, as may the proceeds from the discounting of foreign currency draf ts presented by exporters. The due date of the commercial contract may not be more than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination, except with special authorization or when a guarantee by the Com- pagnie Francaise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Ex- terieur (COFACE) has been obtained. For values ex- ceeding the equ iva lent of F 50,000, export proceeds must not be received in French or foreign bank notes or bank notes issued by an institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, or by debit to a postal checking account in France; export proceeds from F 50,000 to F 100,000 may be received in checks and those above F 100,000 by transfer; in 6Repa t r ia t ion may take place either by collection of foreign currency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE addition, for such amounts, exporters are from the date of shipment to sell on a spot or forward basis 90 percent of the foreign currency proceeds from exports. All export transactions related to foreign countries and valued at F 150,000 or more must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank; the Director-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes, however, may exempt certain approved firms from domiciliation requirements. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports, even when paid for in francs, and are exempt from taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in inv is ib les w i th Monaco and the Operations Account countries may be re ta ined. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets (w i th the exception of income from work in border areas) must be repatriated and, where appropriate, surrendered w i th in one month from the due date and in any case w i th in eight working days of receipt. With minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin (except gold coin) in francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any foreign currency; however, the exchange of bank notes issued by Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Resident travelers must sell in the exchange market any foreign bank notes or traveler's checks in excess of F 1,000 w i th in a month of en try. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers between France and all other countries are subject to exchange control approval. With the exception of purchases of French and foreign securities abroad, outward transfers of resident-owned capital generally are restricted; capital receipts from foreign countries are permitted freely, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered by sale in the exchange market (but see below for special controls over borrowing abroad and over inward direct investment). Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. Outward remittances of funds for the purpose of buy ing a second place of residence is subject to prior authorization by the Bank of France. The transfer abroad of nonresident-owned f u n d s, inc lud ing the sales proceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by nonresidents may be exported, provided that they have been deposited w i th an authorized bank in a foreign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs least two years and cannot be repaid in advance w i thout authorization. In principle, foreign companies domiciled in EC member countries are free to take over any participation in the equity capital of a French company. The Directorate of the Treasury is, however, entitled to issue a finding within two months to forbid such participation should it be deemed to jeopardize pub l ic health, order, security, or defense, or thought to be sought on account of a third party outside the EC. For countries outside the EC, prior exchange control authori- zation is required for all direct investment operations liable to involve a capital movement. Direct investments are defined as investments leading to control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not consid- ered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a firm whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange; any participation in any other type of firm may be considered a direct investment. The Directorate of the Treasury, in evaluat- ing the degree of control, takes into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, patents and licenses, commercial contracts, etc. Loans granted by a parent company to its subsidiary are subject to the same regulations as direct investments. However, loans granted by a foreign company to its French subsidiary are free from any prior authorization up to F 10 million a year, provided that (a) the interest rate is a "normal" market rate, (b) a schedule of repayment is def ined, and (c) each drawing remains outstanding for at least one year. If the amount involved is more than F 1 million, documentary evidence must be submitted to the Direc- torate of the Treasury before the l iqu ida t ion proceeds of foreign direct investments in France may be transferred abroad, and the liquidation itself must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days after it takes place. As an exception to the declaration and approval requirements summarized above, the making of direct investments abroad by residents is exempt from prior declaration or prior authorization when the amount involved does not exceed F 2 million a year for each beneficiary firm abroad, and provided that the transac- tions do not involve holding companies, investment companies, investment trusts, un it trusts, mutual fund s, or companies whose purpose it is to facilitate the financing or treasury functions of enterprises belonging to one or more groups, as well as the f inanc ing of investments in agriculture and real estate. The liquida- tion of direct investment abroad is free from any prior application provided that the corresponding funds are repatriated to France in due time. Certain inward direct investment up to F 10 m i l l ion a transaction also is exempt from prior declaration or authorization. Foreign issues on the French capital market are subject to prior authorization by the M in is ter of Economy, Finance, and the Budget. The requirement is applicable also to the Operations Account countries. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French FRANCE Government and (2) shares similar to securities that already are o f f ic ia l ly quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of jur id ical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and the Budget. The following types of borrowing are, in principle, exempt from th is authorization: (1) borrowing by industrial firms for the execution of works abroad; (2) borrowing by any type of firm to finance imports or exports of goods; (3) loans related to certain international merchanting transactions; (4) borrowing related to the performance of services (other than income from labor or capital), when undertaken to finance operations executed abroad or transactions w i th foreign countries; (5) loans contracted by banks expressly permitted to borrow abroad (these include all authorized banks); and (6) foreign currency borrowing abroad by nonbank f i rms, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed F 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower, provided that the interest rate is a "normal" market rate, that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered, and that each draw- ing against the loan is separated by at least one year from the corresponding repayment. All borrowings in Euro- francs are subject to prior authorization. The application of the controls over direct investment and borrowing is delegated to the Bank of France insofar as they relate to French firms that are mainly engaged in real estate business. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the Bank of France, within the framework of directives issued by the Treasury. Since the imposition of exchange control in 1968, authorized banks have been v ir tua l ly free to lend foreign currency to nonresidents, subject to certain reservations in respect of the granting of guarantees and varying limitations on their external position, and to resident importers and exporters. Lending to nonresidents in francs, however, is prohibited, w i th minor exceptions. Authorized banks' foreign currency assets and their overall liabilities in francs and foreign currency to nonresidents are free from limitation. Nonresidents may freely purchase French short-term securities, inc lud ing treasury b i l ls, bons de caisse, and private draf ts. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire regularly, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may continue to hold abroad any gold they held there prior to November 25, 1968. There is a free gold market for bars and coin in Paris, to which residents have free access and in wh ich normally no off ic ial intervention takes place. Imports and exports of "monetary" gold (defined as gold having neither a fineness nor a weight that is recognized in the gold market) into or from the territory of continental France require prior authorization by the 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Bank of France. Imports or exports to or from the Bank of France itself, however, are exempted from that requirement. Imports and exports by private persons of gold objects (other than medals and bars, but inc lud ing both personal and other jewelry) or numismatic gold coins, provided that their combined weight does not exceed 500 grams, are similarly exempt. Movements of industrial gold are subject to a simple declaration as are imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as gold-filled and gold- plated articles. Collectors' items of gold and gold antiques are subject to specific regulations. A 20-franc gold coin, the napoleon, is traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic trading, purchases of bars and coin are not subject to value-added tax. Imports of monetary gold are exempt from customs du ty and value-added tax. Domestic transactions in gold and gold coin are subject to capital gains tax. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement March 21. The bilateral central rates and intervention rates between the French franc and the Belgian- Luxembourg f ranc, the Danish krone, the deutsche mark, the Italian lira, the Irish pound, and the Nether- lands guilder were ad jus ted. March 25. Forward exchange coverage was pro- hibited in respect of term transactions in foreign currency on commodity markets, and forward cover of spot transactions in commodities was limited to eight days with the obligation to redeem foreign exchange receipts after the eight-day period. Imports and Import Payments January 1. In invocation of Article XIX of the GATT, under which import restrictions could be used to safeguard domestic industries from in jur ious import competition, France imposed quan t i ta t ive limits for a three-year period on imports of tableware and stoneware for domestic use. January 1. In the context of a renewal of the Mu l t if iber Arrangement and the conclusion of bilateral agreements for a four-year period between the EC and exporting signatory countries, in respect of wool, cotton, and synthetic textiles, France made a number of modifi- cations in its import regime for these products. January 15. Regulation No. 1958-82 adopted by the Commission of the European Communities on Ju ly 16, 1982, which levied a temporary an t idump ing du ty on imports of photo enlargers originating in Poland and the U . S . S .R ., was repealed. January 20. W i th in the context of Regulation No. 101-83 of the Commission of the EC dated January 17, 1983, an an t idump ing du ty was imposed on imports of urea and ammonium nitrate fertilizers originating in the United States and exported by Allied Corporation, Kaiser A lum inum Domestic and Interna- tional Sales Corporation, and the Transcontinental Fer- 200 tilizer Company. The duties were fixed at 19.05 percent, 12.13 percent, and 12.01 percent for the above compa- nies, respectively. January 25. Regulation No. 2568-82 adopted by the Commission of the EC on September 24, 1982, which provided for a temporary an t idump ing du ty on imports of po lyv inyl chloride originating in Czechoslovakia, was repealed. January 26. W i th in the context of Regulation No. 163-83 of the Commission of the EC, dated January 21, 1983, France imposed a temporary anti- dump ing du ty on imports of specified isopropyl originat- ing in the United States. The du ty was fixed at 37.6 percent when the sales contract called for payment w i th in 30 days of shipment; it would be increased by 1 percentage point for each month of delay of payment. February 1. Imports of horse and ass meat from Turkey in the form of carcass, quartered, cut up, or boned were suspended. February 5. W i th in the context of Regulation No. 290-83 of the Commission of the EC, dated February 2, 1983, France imposed a temporary anti- dump ing du ty of 4 .14 percent on imports of urea and ammon ium nitrate fertilizers originating in the United States and exported by Agrico Chemical Company, Tulsa, Oklahoma. February 6. W i th in the context of Regulation No. 273-83 of the Commission of the EC, dated February 1, 1983, France imposed an t idump ing duties on imports of specified sodium carbonate originating in Bu lgar ia, the German Democratic Republic, Poland, Romania, and the U .S .S .R. The rates varied from 9.68 percent a ton for imports from Poland to 40.86 percent a ton for imports from the German Democratic Repub l ic. February 18. In accordance w i th Recommendation No. 376/83/CECA of the Commission of the EC, dated February 14, 1983, France imposed a temporary anti- dump ing du ty on imports of specified sheet iron or sheet steel originating in Brazil. February 19. Quota limits were announced on im- ports of footwear from Ta iwan .t March 24. It was announced that authorized interna- tional traders could no longer purchase foreign exchange to buy goods for resale abroad more than eight days before the inward transfer of the foreign exchange proceeds. In addition, such traders could no longer make forward purchases of foreign exchange to cover opera- tions on foreign commodity markets. December 8. The threshold level of individual import (and export) transactions subject to domiciliation re- quirement w i th an authorized bank was raised from F 120,000 to F 150,000. Payments for Invisibles March 28. The foreign exchange allowance for French residents traveling abroad for nonbusiness pur- tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 52. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution poses was reduced from the equ iva lent of F 5,000 to F 2,000 (F 1,000 for children under 10 years of age) a year, and a l im it equ iva lent to F 1,000 a person a day was introduced for business trave l. In add i t ion, the use of credit cards abroad was restricted to business travel- ers; and a system was introduced under wh ich foreign exchange purchases by residents were to be recorded in a newly issued foreign exchange booklet. Apart from the foreign exchange allowance, resident travelers were allowed to export F 1,000 in French bank notes each t r ip. April 8. The limit on the sale of foreign exchange for remittances abroad w i thout supporting evidence was reduced from the equ iva lent of F 3,000 a person any number of times (provided that such transfers did not serve as a means of disguised capital accumu la t ion abroad) to the equ iva lent of F 1,000 a person a quar ter. In addition, such remittances could not be used to pay tourist expenses abroad, or to make ins ta l lment pay- ments on external f inanc ial obligations. Outward rem i t- tances in support of relatives residing abroad were also authorized in an amount up to F 2,000 an app l icant a month. December 8. The l im it on outward transfers w i thout supporting documents was raised from F 1,000 to FRANCE F 1,500 a person a quarter. In add i t ion, remittances in support of relatives abroad were increased from F 2,000 to F 3,000 an app l icant a mon th. December 20. The reduction introduced on March 28, 1983 in the sale of foreign exchange for travel abroad were e l im ina ted, w i th the exception of the use of credit cards abroad wh ich continued to be l im i ted to business travel expenses. Proceeds from Exports and Invisibles December 8. It was announced tha t, subject to the app l icab le specific regu la t ions on the conversion of foreign cu r rency, se t t lement of an amount subject to repatriation could be effected by us ing any manner of payment for up to F 50,000 and by a check drawn on an account abroad (or on a foreign account in France) for up to F 150,000. Capital March 28. The l im it on external borrowings (other than for trade purposes) that residents could contract w i t h o ut prior o f f ic ial au thor iza t ion was raised from the equ iva lent of F 10 m i l l i on to the equ iva lent of F 50 m i l l i o n. 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Gabon is the CFA F ranc ,1 wh ich is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange transac- tions in French francs between the BEAC and commer- cial banks at present take place at the rate of CFAF 50 = F 1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain foreign curren- cies are also off ic ia l ly posted, with quotations based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange marke t, and include a commission. Commissions are charged at the rate of 0.25 percent on transfers made by the banks for their own accounts, and 0.225 percent on all private capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Treasury, national accounting offices, national and inter- national public agencies, and private entities granted exemption by the Ministry of Economy and Finance because of the nature of their ac t iv i t ies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Re- pub l ic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Ivory Coast, Mali, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made free ly. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Directorate of Foreign Financial Re la t ions in the Ministry of Economy and Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Economy and Finance, who has dele- gated his approval au thor i ty for current paymen ts to the authorized banks and that w i th respect to the external position of the banks to the BEAC. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be ef- fected through authorized intermediaries, that is, the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import authorizations or licenses, and export authorizations, where necessary, are issued by the Directorate of External Trade of the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try. Prescription of Currency Since Gabon is an Operations Account coun t ry, settlements w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, JThe CFA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afr ique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Repub l ic, Chad, and the Congo. 202 and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Settlements w i th all other countries are u su a l ly made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BEAC agency in Libreville by an authorized bank 's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BEAC bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments In general, imports from member countries of the Central Afr ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) are free of formalities; imports of refined vegetable oil from these countries require prior approval. All imports from countries outside the UDEAC are subject to either an authorization to import (when the va lue is more than CFAF 500,000) or a license to import. All imports, of any or ig in, are subject to authori- za t ion. For perishables and spare parts, a provisional authorization is given to avoid administrative delays. Imports from countries outside the UDEAC that are similar to, and compete w i th, domestic products are subject to l icens ing b u t, w i th a few exceptions ,2 licenses are granted liberally in practice. Some imports are prohibited for security and health reasons. Imports of refined vegetable oil are suspended except when origina- t ing from member countries of the UDEAC. All imports of commercial goods must be insured through authorized insurance companies in Gabon. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Authoriza- tions du ly endorsed by the M in is try of Foreign Trade and the M in is try of Economy and Finance (Directorate of Financial In s t i tu t ion s) entitle importers to purchase the necessary foreign exchange provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for inv is ib les to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted free ly; those to other countries are subject to approval, wh ich is granted when the appropriate docu- ments are subm i t ted. For many types of payment the 2Cemen t, sugar, ba t te r ies, and ref ined vegetable o i l. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au tho r iza t ion. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted free ly when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents trave l ing to coun tr ies other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a tr ip (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Gabon must be surrendered. For bus iness travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation equ iva- lent to CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a m a x im um of CFAF 500,000 a trip. Tourist and bus iness travel alloca- tions may not be combined. Travelers to foreign coun- tries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BEAC bank notes; the amount taken out is not deducted from the travel allocation. Travelers to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may not export CFA or French bank notes in excess of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 (CFAF 100,000 for ch i l- dren under ten) for tourist travel; for bus iness travel the amount of such bank notes that may be carried out is the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day and CFAF 500,000 a trip. Transfers may be effected w i thout l im it through the banking or postal systems. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no general regulations concerning exports. Exports of refined petroleum products, cacao, coffee, and crocodile skins require au thor iza t ion, irrespective of destination. Export transactions relating to foreign countries mu st be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country mu st be surrendered. Ex- port proceeds normally must be received w i th in 150 days after the arrival of the commodities at the ir de s t ina t ion. The proceeds must be collected and, if received in a foreign currency, surrendered w i th in one mon th of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in inv i s ib les w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amoun ts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and, if received in foreign cu r rency, be surrendered w i th in a month of the due date. Res ident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as we ll as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold co in) of countries outside the French Franc Area. GABON Capital Cap i tal movemen ts between Gabon and France (as de f ined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to a ll other coun tr ies requ ire the approval of the Directorate of Foreign F inanc ial Re la t ions and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted f ree ly. All foreign securities, foreign cur- rency, and t i t les embody ing c la ims on foreign countries or nonres iden ts that are held in Gabon by residents or nonres iden ts mu st be deposited w i th authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be app l icab le) are maintained over borrow ing and l end ing abroad, over inward and ou twa rd direct inv e s tm en t, and over the issu ing, adver- t i s ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to paymen ts or receipts. W i th the exception of controls over the sale or in t roduc t ion of foreign securities in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. Direct inves tmen ts abroad3 must be declared to the M i n i s t ry of Economy and F inance un less they take the form of a cap i tal increase re su l t ing from re inves tment of und i s t r ibu t ed prof i ts; the f u ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of such inves tmen ts also mu st be declared to the Ministry un le ss the operation invo lves the r e l inqu i sh ing of a pa r t ic ipa t ion that had prev ious ly been approved as con s t i tu t ing a d irect inves tment abroad. Foreign direct inve s tmen ts in Gabon4 must be declared to the Ministry un le ss they take the form of a cap i tal increase resulting from re inves tment of und i s t r ibu ted profits; w i th in two mon ths from receipt of the dec lara t ion, the M in is try may request the postponement of the project. The fu ll or par t ial l iqu id a t ion of direct inves tmen ts in Gabon must also be declared to the M i n i s t ry un less the operation involves the re l inqu i sh ing of a participation that had p rev iou s ly been approved as con s t i tu t ing a direct invest- ment in Gabon. Both the m a k i ng and the l iqu ida t ion of d irect inv e s tm en t s, whe ther these are Gabonese invest- men ts abroad or fore ign inves tmen ts in Gabon, mu st be reported to the M i n i s t ry w i t h in 20 days fo l low ing each operation. Direct inve s tmen ts are def ined as inves tmen ts im p l y i ng control of a company or enterprise. The i s s u i n g, adve r t i s ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign secur i t ies in Gabon requires prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in i s t ry of Economy and F inance. Exempt from autho- r iza t ion, however, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a gua ran tee from the Gabonese Gove rnment and (2) shares s im i lar to securities whose ^ I n c l u d i ng those made t h r o u gh f o r e i gn compan ies th at a re d irec t ly or i n d i r e c t ly con t ro l l ed by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subs id ia r ies abroad of compan ies in Gabon. 4I n c l u d i ng those made by compan ies in Gabon th at a re d i rec t ly or i n d i r e c t ly u n d er fo r e ign con trol and those made by branches or s u b s i d i a r i es in Gabon of fo re ign compan ie s. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Gabon has pre- viously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign coun- tries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans con- tracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Directorate of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation, except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on March 23, 1967 and Ju ly 9, 1971, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. A m in imum of 10 percent state participation is required for any enterprise located in Gabon. The Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. In addition to fiscal privileges, eligible companies may receive protec- tion against foreign competition and may be given priority in the allocation of imports, of public credit, and of government contracts. A Presidential Decree of April 11, 1975 provides that foreign companies investing in Gabon must offer shares for purchase by Gabonese nationals. Non-Gabonese firms or individuals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require the authorization of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). The export of gold is the monopoly of the Societe Gabonaise de Recherches et d'Exp lo i ta t ion Minieres (SOGAREM). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declara- tion. Changes During 1983 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 204 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The cu r rency of The Gamb ia is the G am b i an D a l a s i, wh i ch is pegged to the pound s t e r l i n g, the i n t e r v e n t i on currency, at D 4 = £ stg. 1. The Cen tral Bank of The Gamb ia dea ls in pounds s t e r l i ng at the f ix ed rate of D 4 = £ stg. 1, sub ject to a comm i s s ion of 0.0625 per- cent buy ing and 0.5 percent s e l l ing. The comme rc ial banks deal w i th cus tome rs for spot t r an s a c t ions in s ter l ing at ra tes w i t h in 1 percent of the C en t r al B a n k 's fixed rate and in other cu r renc ies at rates d e t e rm in ed by the p reva i l ing market rate in London for the currency concerned aga in st the pound s t e r l i n g. There are no taxes or subs id ies on pu rchases or sales of fo r e ign e x c h a n g e. There is a m u l t i p le currency practice associated w i th a requ i rement that the domes t ic cu r rency coun te rpa rt of a ll ex te rnal paymen ts arrears be p laced in a B locked Account at the Central Bank of The G amb i a. Administration of Control Exchange con t rol po l i cy is d e t e rm in ed by the M i n i s t ry of Finance and Trade. The day- to-day a dm i n i s t r a t i on of exchange con trol is carried out by the C en t r al B a n k. The comme rc ial b a n k s, w h i ch h ave been appo in t ed as a u t h o- rized dealers, may au tho r ize sales of fo re ign cu r renc ies for impo r ts covered by spec i f ic l icenses and, up to specified am o u n t s, for t ravel expenses and s u n d ry payments abroad. All other sales of fore ign currenc ies a re sub ject to a u t h o r i z a t i on by the C en t r al B a n k. The M in i s t ry of F inance and Trade is r e spon s ib le for the issue of import and expo rt l i c en s e s. Prescription of Currency Se t t lemen ts w i th o ther c o u n t r i es may be made and received in dalasis or pounds s te r l ing from non res ident sources or in any o ther c u r r e n c y. S e t t l em e n ts w i th the Central B a nk of West A f r i c an S ta tes ( for B e n i n, Ivo ry Coast, N i g e r, Senega l, Togo, and Upper V o l t a) a nd Gh an a, G u i n e a, G u i n e a - B i s s a u, L i b e r i a, M a l i, M a u r i t a n i a, N i g e r i a, and Sierra Leone a re n o rm a l ly made th rough the West A f r i c an C l e a r ing Hou se. Nonresident Accounts Bank accoun ts he ld by au tho r i z ed dea lers in The Gamb ia on beha lf of res iden ts of o ther c o u n t r i es may be des igna ted Ex te rnal A c c o u n t s. They may be c red i ted w i th au tho r ized p a ym e n ts from res iden ts of o ther c o u n- tries, w i th transfers from other Ex te rnal Accoun t s, and w i th the proceeds of sales of o ther c u r r e n c i e s. They may be deb i ted for any p a ym e n ts to r e s id en ts of o ther coun tr ies, for t rans fe rs to o ther Ex te rnal A c coun t s, and for pu rchases of o ther cu r r en c i e s. In a d d i t i o n, th e re is legal p rov i s ion for au tho r i z ed dea le rs to m a i n t a in Blocked Accoun ts under the d i rec t ion of the Cen t ral B a n k. Imports and Import Payments Im p o r t a t i on of c e r t a in sp e c i f i ed goods is p r o h i b i t ed f rom a ll sou rce s, p r e d om i n a n t ly for soc ial or h e a l th reasons or on g rounds of p u b l ic p o l i c y. The import from any c o u n t ry of r i c e, s u g a r, and wh e at f l o ur is sub ject to sp e c i f ic l i c e n s i ng in order to e n s u re the adequacy of such impo r ts and t h e ir f a ir domes t ic p r i c i n g. The Gamb ia Produce M a r k e t i ng Board is r e spon s ib le for r ice impo r t s. Except for impo r ts f rom Ea s te rn Eu ropean c o u n t r i e s, the Peop le 's R e p u b l ic of C h i n a, the Democ ra t ic People's R e p u b l ic of Korea, and J a p a n, w h i ch are subject to sp e c i f ic l i c e n s i n g, a ll o ther impo r ts a re f r e e ly p e rm i t t ed u n d er an open gene ral l i c e n s e. S e t t l em ent for impo r ts from Eastern European coun- t r i es may be app roved by an a u t h o r i z ed dea ler on p r o d u c t i on of e v i d e n ce of im p o r t a t i on for any commod- ity that is covered by a v a l id spec i f ic import l icense. For impo r ts t h at do not r e q u i re sp e c i f ic l i c e n s i n g, p a ym e nt a u t h o r i z a t i on is g i v en by the C e n t r al B ank on p rodu c t ion of ev id en ce of im p o r t a t i on or s h i pm e n t. Advance pay- m en ts for impo r t s, w h e t h er or not these are covered by s p e c i f ic l i c e n s e s, a re app roved by the C e n t r al B a nk in a ll cases w h e re the p a ym e nt is con s ide red g e n u i ne and in accordance w i th no rmal comme rc ial prac t ice. Paymen ts for impo r ts may be made in d a l a s is or s t e r l i ng to an E x t e r n al A c c o u nt or in any o ther c u r r e n c y. All goods are sub ject to an impo rt tax of 3'/z percent of t he c . i . f. v a l ue u n l e ss o t h e rw i se s p e c i f i e d. Impo r ts made by t he G o v e r nm e n t, d i p l om a t ic m i s s i o n s, a nd c h a r i t a b le o r g a n i z a t i o ns a re e x em p t. There have been some de lays in impo rt p aym en t s. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for i n v i s i b l es in fo re ign currenc ies requ ire p e rm i s s i on f rom t he C e n t r al B a n k, w i th t he excep t ion t h at a u t h o r i z ed d e a l e rs h ave been de lega ted powers to au tho r i ze t ravel expenses and s u n d ry p aym en t s. Permis- s ion is g i v en in a ll g e n u i ne cases. I r r e sp e c t ive of the purpose of the j o u r n e y, a u t h o r i z ed dea le rs may g r a nt a bas ic ex ch ange a l low an ce of up to D 750 a person a t r ip but not e x c e e d i ng D 1,500 in any one c a l e n d ar year for t r a v el ab road. For b u s i n e s s, p r o f e s s i o n a l, or o f f i c i al pu rpo s e s, a u t h o r i z ed dea le rs m ay p rov ide re s iden ts w i th ex ch ange f a c i l i t i es of up to D 1,750 for any one jou rn ey at a rate not e x c e e d i ng D 125 a d a y, s u b j e ct to a m a x i m um of D 3,500 in any one c a l e n d ar yea r. Any excess over these a l lowances requ i res pe rm iss ion from the C e n t r al B a n k, b ut a ll such a p p l i c a t i o ns a re approved p r o v i d ed t h at no c a p i t al o u t f l ow is i n v o l v e d. Of the above am o u n t s, up to D 250 may be t a k en out in fo re ign cu r r en cy no tes and c o i n. I r r e s p e c t i ve of d e s t i n a t i o n, a t r a v e l er l e a v i ng The G am b ia may t a ke out D 75 in G am b i an or pound s t e r l i ng cu r rency no tes. V i s i to rs to The G am b ia m ay a l so t a ke out w i th t h em on depa r tu re 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA any other currency notes declared by them when entering the country. There have been some delays in service paymen ts on external debt. Exports and Export Proceeds Because of domestic requirements, the export of charcoal and firewood is subject to specific l icens ing. The export of all other goods can generally be made without ind iv idual licensing, if settlement is made in accordance w i th procedures laid down by the Central Bank. The Gambia Produce Marke t ing Board is the sole exporter of groundnut products, oil pa lm kerne ls, cotton, and all derivatives of cotton. Payment for exports must be received in foreign currency through an authorized dealer w i th in three months from the date of export. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to authorized dealers. Imports of Gam- bian currency notes are limited to D 75 a person, but there is no restriction on the import of other cu r rency notes. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not controlled, but ou tward transfers are subject to control. At the time of mak ing inves tmen ts in The Gamb ia, nonresident inves- tors may apply for a clearance from the Central Bank to fac i l i ta te subsequent repatriation of capital; the remit- tance of profits is a l lowed freely after provision has been made for local taxes and other legally incurred liabilities in The Gamb ia. All other applications to transfer capital abroad are dealt w i th by the Central Bank. Loans and advances by the commercial banks to nonresidents are subject to the authorization of the Central Bank. Gold The import of gold coin minted in the United K ingdom requires l icens ing by the M in is t ry of Finance and Trade; o therw ise, gold coin and bullion may be imported f ree ly. All in ternal dealings in gold and the export of gold requ ire the permission of the Central Bank. Ne i ther the Central Bank nor the commercial banks deal in gold. Changes During 1983 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Federal Republic of Germany is the Deutsche Mark. Germany1 participates with Bel- gium, Denmark, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System (EMS), whereby each country maintains the value of its currency in relation to the currencies of the other participating countries. Under this agreement, spot exchange rates between the deutsche mark and the currencies of the other partici- pants are maintained within margins of 2.25 percent above or below the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs), except for the Italian lira for which the temporary intervention limit is plus or minus 6 percent. The agreement implies that the Deutsche Bundesbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On Decem- ber 31, 1983 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 1,000 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders Deutsche Mark Upper limit Lower limit 5.106 28.165 33.350 3.160 1.696 90.770 4.882 26.925 31.885 3.021 1.504 86.780 The participants in the EMS are not maintaining the exchange rates for other currencies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in conceit with other participants to smooth out erratic fluctuations in exchange rates. In principle, interventions are made in participating curren- cies but they may also take place in third currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Official middle, buying, and selling rates are quoted for 17 foreign currencies on the foreign exchange market of Frankfurt am Main.2 On December 30, 1983 the official middle rate for the U.S. dollar was DM 2.7238 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Germany formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Transportation, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry, the Federal Ministry for Food, Agriculture, and Forestry, the Federal Office for Food and Forestry, the Federal Office for Agricultural Marketing Organization, and the Ministries of Econom- ics of the Laender. No such controls are currently in place. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. A voluntary coordinating body within the banking system, the Central Capital Market Committee, formulates recommendations with regard to the timing of domestic bond issues, except issues by those institutions that have recourse to the capital market on a permanent basis. "Issue calendars" for foreign bonds denominated in deutsche mark are established on a voluntary basis by the Central Capital Market Subcommittee. Imports and Import Payments The Import List comprises a total of 9,170 statistical positions. Their treatment is as follows: some 8,484 items may be imported free of license from any country. Commodities corresponding to some 8,772 positions may be imported free of license from countries in Country List A /B .3 Most items under import licensing are agricultural commodities under EC regulations. The import of some 600 textile items is governed by bilateral agreements of the EC with various supplier countries under the arrangement regarding international trade in textiles. Imports of coal from countries that are not members of the European Coal and Steel Community are permitted within the framework of an annual global quota. The Common Agricultural Policy of the EC covers about 1,700 statistical items; most of these are subject to variable import levies which in most cases have replaced previous barriers to imports. De facto liberalization under what is called the AMLA (Ausschreibungen mit laufender Antragstellung) proce- dure is accorded to certain commodities (153 statistical items) when originating in countries in List C.4 Under the procedure, import licenses are issued automatically upon application, provided that domestic production and prices are not affected adversely. Imports of certain commodities among those not subject to licensing require, for surveillance purposes only, an import declaration stamped by the Federal !The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, including Berlin (West). 2Austrian schillings, Belgian and Luxembourg francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 Countries in List A/B are those of the former OEEC area and Finland and all other countries except those in List C. Countries in List C are Albania, member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (CMEA), the People's Republic of China, and the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea. 4This procedure has been turned into fu ll liberalization beginning from January 1, 1984. 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY Office for Trade and Indus t ry. These import declarations are partly prescribed by the EC. For imports s t i ll subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction (w i th certain exceptions, such as food items imported by tourists, samples, g i f t s, and small parcels), an ind iv idual import license is required. Applications are normally invited by tender (Aus- schreibung} published in the Federal Off ic ial Gazette. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first-come, first-served basis or on the basis of the total va lue of applications in relation to the quotas established for specified commodities. Payments for imports are free, even if the unde r ly ing import transaction is still restricted. Commodity fu tu res may be dealt in free ly. Most transit trade transac t ions may also be carried out free ly. Payments for Invisibles All payments for inv is ib les may be made free ly w i thout individual license. German and foreign notes and coin and other means of payment may be exported freely. The fo l low ing transactions —but not the related pay- ments —between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships from residents of specified countries and the conclusion of related sea fre ight contracts; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterway traffic; transactions w i th specified countries (wh ich do not grant reciprocal treat- ment) for hu ll and marine l iab i l i ty insurance and av ia t ion insurance, except passenger accident insurance. Exports and Export Proceeds W i th few exceptions, export transactions may be carried out f ree ly. For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to ind iv idual licens- ing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all paymen ts. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for nonresi- dents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services and for technical assistance through the delivery of constructional drawings, materials, and instructions for manufacture to residents of List C countries (see footnote 3), if such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of paymen ts for services rendered to nonresidents; however, receipts exceeding DM 2,000 on account of services have to be reported. German and foreign notes and coin and other means of payment may be imported free ly. Capital Residents and nonresidents m ay, in pr inc ip le, export capital freely w i thout a license. Foreign and international 208 bond issues on the German capital market do not require o f f ic ial approva l, a l though a vo lun ta ry monitoring sys- tem of issu ing banks is operated by the Central Capital Market Subcomm i t tee. The issue of bonds denominated in deutsche mark by subs id iar ies of German banks in Luxembourg is banned, on the basis of a gen t lemen's agreement between the banks and the Bundesbank. The issue of external bonds denominated in deutsche mark must be made th rough a b ank ing consortium w i th at least one German bank w i th residence in Germany serving as a lead manager. In pr inc ip le, domestic and foreign securities of all types may be imported or exported f ree ly. Fo l low ing the changes in regu la t ions beg inn ing March 12, 1981, no restrictions are applied on the sale of German money market papers and fixed interest securi- ties by residents to nonresidents. Nonres iden ts' direct inves tmen ts in Ge rmany, purchases of real estate in Germany for inves tment or personal use, and purchases of German or foreign equities do not require approval. Interest payable to nonresident holders of fixed interest securities of German issuers is subject to a w i thho ld ing tax of 25 percent ("coupon tax"). There are no limita- t ions on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inhe r i ted by nonresidents or on legacies located abroad and inher i ted by res iden ts. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or ho ld ings. Banks are subject to m i n im um reserve requirements on the level of the ir fore ign l iab i l i t ies w i th maturities of less than f o ur years; the rates of deposit at the end of 1983 were, in p r inc ip le, the same as those applicable to domestic l i ab i l i t i e s, that is, 10.15 percent, 7 .15 percent, and 4.5 percent on demand, t im e, and savings deposits, respec t ive ly. The pr inc ipal exemption is for banks' foreign currency borrowings that are immed ia te ly rein- vested abroad. Banks are free to pay interest on domestic or foreign currency balances held by nonresidents. Gold Residents may f ree ly hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or non res iden ts, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in F rank fu r t. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is requ ired. Imports of gold bu l l ion and coin, unworked gold, and gold alloys are free of customs du ty but are subject to va lue-added tax at a rate of 14 percent. In the case of imports of gold coin where the assessment basis exceeds 250 percent of the f ine gold va lue, the value-added tax is levied at a rate of 7 percent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank are exempt from value-added tax and from cus toms d u t y. Domestic transactions in gold are subject to value-added tax at the same rate as imports, but under certain conditions no value-added tax is levied on transactions in gold bu l l ion effected on gold ex- changes between brokers who are admitted to these ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY exchanges. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in all cases are liberalized. ~, _ . ino-> Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement March 21. The deutsche mark was revalued by 5.5 per- cent on average in relation to the currencies in the European Monetary System, Capital September 6. The Bundesbank requested German , , , _ M ^ . . banks to endeavor to prevent proceeds of newly issued Eurobond loans denominated in deutsche mark from being used in currency swap operations by borrowers. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ghana is the Ghana ian Cedi. In J u ne 1978, Ghana introduced a f l ex ib le exchange system under wh ich the exchange rate for the cedi in terms of the U .S. dollar, the in terven t ion cu r rency, was to be adjusted to reflect the unde r ly ing economic, f i n a n c i a l, and balance of payments s i tua t ion. Such ad jus tmen ts were d iscon t inued, howeve r, in Augu st 1978. On April 21, 1983, a mu l t ip le exchange rate system was introduced, based on bonuses and surcharges applied to specified transactions by the banks and other au tho r ized dealers of foreign exchange at the rates of 750 percent and 990 percent of the o f f ic ial exchange rate of (£ 2.75 = US$1, and yielding exchange rates of <£ 23.375 - US$1 and <£ 29.975 = US$1. On October 10, 1983, the mu l t ip le exchange rate system was abolished, and the exchange rate system was u n i f i ed at the rate of (^ 30 = US$1. Rates are also quoted for certain other cu r renc ie s ,' w i th d a i ly quo ta t ions based on the buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U . S. dollar in markets abroad. The au thor ized banks may exchange Ghana ian currency for any foreign cu r rency. A d i f fe rent exchange rate for the cedi arises from the app l ica t ion of a 5 percent tax on purchases of foreign exchange for education, travel, and medical treatment abroad and for private outward transfers. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports at the M in i s t ry of Trade is empowered to p roh ib i t, regu la te, or license all imports and exports. App l ica t ions by the indu s t r i al sector and certain state agencies for i n d i v i d u al import licenses must be channeled th rough the appropriate m in is try or government agency for endorsemen t. The controller of Imports and Exports issues import licenses on the basis of an import program drawn up by a technical committee on impor ts, the recommenda t ions of wh ich are subject to approval by the Committee of Secretaries representing the var ious m in i s t r i e s. A ll im- port licenses must be signed by the Director of Impo r t s. The Exchange Control Depar tment of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for paymen ts for invisibles and cap i ta l. Permitted foreign exchange t rans- actions must be made through au thor ized b ank s. Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Ghana and residents of other countries are made in perm i t ted currenc ies. However, settlements related to transac t ions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made th rough c lea r ing 'A u s t r a l i an do l la rs, A u s t r i an s c h i l l i n g s, B e l g i an f r an c s, C a n a d i an dollars, CFA f rancs, Dan i sh k rone r, French f r an c s, deu t sche m a r k, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese y e n, N e th e r l ands g u i l d e r s, New Zea land d o l l a r s, Nigerian na i ra, No rweg ian kroner, pounds s t e r l i n g, Span i sh pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss f ranc s. 210 accoun ts m a in t a in ed by the Bank of Ghana and the central or state banks of the countries concerned.2 Fur thermore, proceeds from exports to countries w i th wh i ch Ghana does not have payments agreements must be received in the currency of the importing country (if that cu r rency is among the currencies quoted by the Bank of G h a n a) or in deu tsche ma rk, pounds sterling, or U .S. do l la rs. Current paymen ts to or from the Central Bank of West A f r i c an States ( for Ben in, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senega l, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Gu inea, Gu inea -B issau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Ni- ger ia, and Sierra Leone are norma l ly made through the West A f r ican C lear ing House. Nonresident Accounts Non res ident account status is granted to embassies, lega t ions, consu la tes, and offices of high commissioners in Ghana and to the career and established members of the ir s ta f f s. Th is f a c i l i ty is also available to international i n s t i t u t i o ns and fore ign registered companies operating in G h a n a, as we ll as to nonresident Ghana ians. The open ing of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Gh an a. The accounts may be credited w i th au thor ized ou tward paymen t s, w i th transfers from other Foreign Accoun t s, and w i th the proceeds from sales of any conve r t ib le cu r rency, other than restricted curren- c ies. They may be debited for inward payments, for t rans fe rs to o ther Foreign Accoun ts, and for purchases of external currencies. Non res ident accounts ma in ta ined under the provisions of b i la te ral paymen ts agreements are called "Official Accoun ts" or "Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited w i th authorized outward payments by res iden ts, w i th t rans fe rs from Foreign Accounts, with paymen ts received th rough the Bank of Ghana for se t t lemen ts w i th b i la teral paymen ts agreement countries, and w i th proceeds from sales of external currencies, o ther t h an restricted currenc ies. They may be debited for au tho r ized inwa rd paymen ts to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same coun t ry, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents, for examp le, certain types of capital proceeds, may be deposited in B locked Accoun ts. These accounts may be debited for au tho r ized paymen ts, inc lud ing the purchase of approved secur i t ies. Imports and Import Payments Imports from N am ib ia (Sou th West Afr ica) and South A f r ica are not permitted. Imports of some goods, i n c l u d i ng v i r t u a l ly a ll tex t i les and textile products, 2G h a na m a i n t a i ns a b i la teral paymen ts agreement w i th the People's R e p u b l ic of C h i n a, R om a n i a, and Y u g o s l a v i a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution chocolate, and chilled or frozen f i sh, are proh ib i ted. Imports of certain goods also produced in Ghana, certain luxury commodities, and certain goods deemed h a rm ful to health or pub l ic order are severely restricted. Importa- tion of certain goods may be allowed under special license where no transfer of foreign exchange through the Bank of Ghana or a commercial bank is required, 10 percent tax (the Special Development Tax) is levied on all such goods imported und er special licenses. There is an open general license wh ich perm i ts any importer to import freely from any country trade samples, personal or household effects, small g i f ts, single copies of publications, domestic pets, headloads of foods tuffs from neighboring countries, f ish caught by Ghana ian- owned vessels, and reimports. All other items invo lv ing use of official foreign exchange require a specific import license. There is a list of commercial imports e l ig ib le for specific licenses wh ich are issued for items that are considered essential w i th in the framework of an annual import program. Certain imports are channe led th rough a bulk purchasing agent, the Ghana Na t ional Procurement Agency, or for pub l ic sector imports, the Ghana Supply Commission. For cases not requ i r ing the provision of official foreign exchange, there is a special license by which specific goods could be imported in commercial quan t i t ies. Except for aid imports, import licenses do not specify the country from wh ich the commod i ty has to be imported, but they do specify whe ther payment is to be made in convertible or inconvertible currency. Licenses for payment in inconvertible currencies may be used for imports from any payments agreement coun t ry. Licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. Exchange for payment of approved imports is, in principle, granted freely by the Bank of Ghana. How- ever, arrears exist w i th respect to both current import payments and the repayments of matured 180-day trade credits established before February 7, 1972. W i th effect from January 2, 1980 the Bank of Ghana ceased to issue letters of credit or to perform other commercial bank ing operations related to import transactions. The Bank of Ghana, however, provides the necessary foreign ex- change cover to the authorized banks. Most imports are effected w i th confirmed letters of credit established through Ghana ian banks, and u sua l ly on a sight basis. For imports valued at over US$2,000 f .o .b ., banks are forbidden to make paymen ts against a letter of credit or a bank draft unless the import documents inc lude a clean report of f ind ings issued by the Societe Generate de Surveillance (SGS) wh ich inspects the goods and verifies the price, qua l i ty, and qu an t i ty in the coun try of origin or sh ipmen t. Payments for Invisibles All payments for inv is ib les requ ire specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of GHANA Ghana, and documen tary evidence must support all app l ica t ions. Certain paymen ts and transfers are in arrears. Transfers of normal bank charges payable to overseas bankers for import payments are generally authorized. The payment of buy ing commission on imports is not perm i t ted. Freight charges may be paid to the local sh ipp ing agents; the transfer of f u n ds to cover such charges is no rma l ly perm i t ted, provided that the applica- tion is properly documen ted. W i th few exceptions, insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghana ian currency w i th local insurance compan ies. Rem i t tances of income by non-Ghana ian employees and self-employed persons are no rma l ly limited to 40 percent of th e ir net annual earnings, up to a m ax imum of US$2,600 a year p lus leave pay; th is personal remittance quo ta is intended to cover all personal and fam i ly requ iremen ts and comm i tmen ts outside Ghana, i n c l u d i ng leave expenses, trave l, educa t ion, g i f ts, insur- ance p rem ium s, subscr ip t ions, and dona t ions. Employ- ees in the m i n i n g, t imbe r, f i sh ing, pe tro leum, and b ank ing indus tr ies are, however, offered a choice be- tween two alternative fac i l i t ies. Under one of these, they are allowed to transfer 40 percent of their net annual earn ings, up to a m a x im um of US$2,600 a year, p lus leave pay and the balance on the ir savings at the end of the ir tour of du ty. Under the other fac i l i ty, when documen ta ry evidence of the ir comm i tmen ts outside Ghana can be produced in support of the ir applications, employees can transfer 70 percent of the ir net annual earnings and the balance on the ir savings at the end of the ir tour of du ty. W i th the exception of companies financed w i th loca l ly raised cap i ta l, nonresident compa- nies are, in principle, permitted to transfer abroad freely the ir net profits after tax; at present, however, transfers of profits are being authorized only on a l im i ted basis. The transfer of profits by companies that have been f inanced w i th loca l ly raised capital is not permitted. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel, wh ich had been reintroduced on August 21, 1978, was sus- pended again on August 7, 1979. Purchases of foreign exchange for educa t ion, travel, and medical treatment abroad and for private outward transfers are subject to a tax of 5 percent. Residents of any na t iona l i ty (except ch i ldren under two years of age, d ip loma ts, and UN personne l) who are leaving Ghana by air or sea for any purpose, whether temporar i ly or not, must pay a travel tax of 80 percent of the price of the round - t r ip ticket. Resident travelers may take w i th them foreign cur- rency notes equ iv a l ent to (£ 160, provided that not more than the equ iva lent of <£ 40 is taken in any one currency. Ghana ian bank notes up to (f 40 may be taken out by any traveler. Nonresident travelers may take out any un- u t i l i z ed foreign currency brought in and declared upon en t ry. 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Namibia (South West Africa) and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of iron and steel scrap also are prohibited. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are exported through a state-owned export agency, the Cocoa Marketing Company, and diamonds are exported through the Diamond Marketing Corpora- tion. Normally, specific export licenses are required. With the exceptions noted below, exporters are re- quired to collect and repatriate the fu ll proceeds from their exports w i th in 60 days of shipment; export pro- ceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered to a commercial bank in Ghana upon receipt. A number of companies in the export sector are allowed to retain up to 20 percent of their export proceeds in accounts abroad for financing essential imports. (Such imports are, however, subject to the import license.) Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers. Foreign currency notes may be imported free ly. The import of Ghanaian currency notes in excess of <£ 40 is prohibited. Capital Foreign investments in Ghana require prior approval by the Capital Investment Centre if they are to benefit from the facilities available under the Investments Code, 1981. Investments approved under the Code are guaran- teed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquidation, capital proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allowances, etc ., are also avail- able for such investments. The Code stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated and that, when approved enterprises are nationalized, fair compensation is to be determined. Where there is a dispute over the amount of compensation, the dispute shall be settled in accordance w i th the established procedure for conciliation, for example, through arbitra- tion by the International Center for Settlements of Investment Disputes. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. The proceeds of the sales of foreign ownership to Ghanaian nationals are held in blocked, noninterest-bearing accounts with the Bank of Ghana; these accounts carry an exchange rate guarantee. Transfers of such funds are being effected gradua l ly. All outgoing capital movements must be approved by the Bank of Ghana; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are consid- ered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been settled. Requests for the transfer of funds representing personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered ind iv idua l ly on their merits. Applications must be supported by appro- priate documentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. Proceeds from the liquidation of the real assets of foreign 212 nationals leaving Ghana may be approved for transfer in one lump sum or may be spread over a period of time, depending on the amount. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident companies controlled by nonresidents require the individual ap- proval of the Bank of Ghana. Residents who are private persons are not normally granted foreign exchange for the acquisition of securities or personal real estate abroad. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad. In respect of portfolio investments, residents must obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. Private sector and commercial bank bor- row ing require the approval of the Bank of Ghana, as do private import credits in excess of $ 240,000 for machinery and equipment; foreign borrowing by Ghanaian nationals is subject to certain guidelines by the Government. Lending to nonresidents is prohibited, except for export credits; these require exchange control approval, and normally are limited to 60 days. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate in Ghana gold obtained domestically by washing or mining according to indigenous methods, gold coins that are collectors' pieces, and gold jewelry. Other domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the M in is try of Trade in collaboration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold Mining Products Protection Ordinance. With these exceptions, Ghanaian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not normally licensed. The import du ty on bu l l ion, partly worked gold, and other gold is levied at a uniform rate of 35 percent. The gold mines export their output in semirefined form. Exports by any one person or firm are subject to an export tax of 20 percent ad valorem. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement April 21. A multiple exchange rate system was introduced, invo lv ing bonuses and surcharges applied by the banks and other authorized dealers of foreign exchange at the rates of 750 percent and 990 percent of the official exchange rate of <£. 2.75 = US$1. The implicit exchange rate of (£ 23.375 = US$1, based on the surcharge rate of 750 percent, was applied to payments for crude oil, essential raw materials, basic foodstuffs, capital goods, and transfers in respect of official commitments and to receipts from exports of traditional products (e .g ., cocoa, gold, timber, dia- mond). The second implicit rate of <£ 29.975 = US$1 was applied to all other payments and receipts. October 10. The multiple exchange rate system in- troduced in April 1983 was abolished, and the exchange rate system was un if ied at the rate of (^ 30 = US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments April 21. The import tariff rates were reduced to three levels: 0 percent (for oil), 25 percent, and 30 percent. Payments for Invisibles April 21. Purchases of foreign exchange for educa- tion, travel, and medical treatment abroad and for private onward transfers were made subject to a tax of 5 percent. The 20 percent tax on the value of letters of credit was abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds April 21. The export tax on gold was changed to an ad valorem rate of 20 percent. APril 21' The 20 Percent bonus for a11 exPorts excePl cocoa' residual oil and electricity was abolished, Gold April 21. The export tax on gold was changed to an ad valorem rate of 20 percent. GHANA 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Greece is the Greek Drachma. Although a member of the EC, Greece does not participate in the exchange rate and in terven t ion mecha- nism of the European Monetary System (EMS). On January 9, 1983 the Greek drachma was devalued by 15.5 percent against the U .S. dollar and all other currencies. The authorities of Greece operate a managed float for the drachma; on August 3, 1983, the policy of intervention to stabilize the drachma against the U .S. dollar was discontinued. On December 31, 1983 buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, in the interbank market were Dr 98.966 and Dr 98.374 respectively, per US$1. Off ic ial exchange rates for the U .S. dollar and other currenc ies1 are determined dur ing the daily f ix ing2 session in wh ich the Bank of Greece and the authorized commercial banks participate. A compulsory commission is charged on all foreign exchange transactions. The commission rate declines from 0.2 percent to 0.0125 percent as the size of the transaction increases from Dr 250,000 to Dr 30 m i l- lion; no charges are levied on transactions of up to US$150, and the maximum charge of Dr 4,500 is applied only to purchases of foreign exchange. The Bank of Greece offers forward cover in U .S. dollars on ly, at rates determined by the Bank. Add i t ional effec t ive exchange rates result from the application of advance import deposit requirements.3 Administration of Control Exchange control policy is the responsibility of the Bank of Greece (the central bank ). Under Law No. 936/79, the Ministry of Commerce is responsible for import and export policy. Exchange control is imple- mented and foreign exchange approvals for imports in specified cases are granted by authorized commercial banks. Import and export licenses are also issued by authorized banks. The authorized banks may make exchange settlements relating to most trade transactions and may grant residents a standard travel allowance. They may also make exchange payments for a number of specified transactions in invisibles. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries are made in any con- vertible currency or through External Sight Deposit Accounts in convertible drachmas. 'Aus t ra l ian do l lars, Aus t r ian s ch i l l ing s, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Dan ish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, Norwe- gian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2The da i ly f ix ing rates are the o f f ic ial exchange rates of the drachma against the respective foreign currencies. 3On January 23, 1983 the Greek authorities announced the te rm ina- tion of the advance import deposit requirements w i th effect from January 1, 1984. 214 Nonresident Accounts Nonres iden ts may ma in ta in accounts in Greece, as fo l lows: 1. Deposits in foreign exchange under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53. Nonresidents may establish time deposit accounts in foreign currency for a m in imum period of six months and w i th a m in imum deposit in convertible currencies equivalent to US$10,000; bal- ances on these accounts earn interest not exceeding 8 percent a year. Interest rates vary according to the term of the account, but l im i ts are f ixed, as follows: for 6 mon ths to 12 mon th s, 7 percent a year; for 12 months to 24 mon ths, 7.5 percent a year; and for 24 months and over, 8 percent a year. Principal and interest are freely transferab le at ma tu r i ty in the currency of the deposit. 2. External Sight Deposit Accounts in convertible drachmas and in foreign currencies. Nonresidents are permitted to open Ex ternal Sight Deposit Accounts in convertible drachmas or foreign currencies. Deposit accounts in conver t ib le drachmas are credited w i th the drachma proceeds of foreign currencies surrendered by a bank to the Bank of Greece against drachmas at the official rate of exchange. Deposits in convertible foreign currency are held by the banks. Any w i thdrawal from drachma accounts for use in Greece and any conversion of w i thd rawa ls from foreign currency accounts into drachmas entail the loss of the reconversion right for the sums w i t h d r aw n. At the end of 1983, the max imum rate of interest on such accounts w i th the banks was 1.5 per- cent a year. In the case of accounts held by the in terna t ional organizations in wh ich Greece participates, interest rates are free ly determined by the banks. These accounts may be credited w i th (a) convertible foreign exchange or the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies; (b) authorized paymen ts by residents of Greece for imports or services payable in convertible currencies; (c) transfers from other External Sight De- posit Accounts; and (d) accrued interest on these de- posits. They may be debited for (a) payments to residents for current transac t ions, exports, and .services; (b) the purchase and t rans fer abroad of any convertible cur- rency; and (c) transfers to other External Sight Deposit Accoun ts. 3. Time Deposit Accounts in convertible foreign exchange. Nonres iden ts may make time deposits in convertible foreign exchange w i th banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The interest rate is determined freely by the banks according to prevailing rates in the international money markets. 4. Deposits in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling. Greek citizens ( inc lud ing seamen) work ing abroad, certain Greek societies and associations operating abroad, and Greek na t iona ls residing abroad may make, w i th funds originating abroad, deposits in U .S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authorized banks in Greece. The interest rates are freely determined by the banks taking into account interest rates applied by the Bank of Greece on the corresponding redeposits; at the end of 1983, the interest rates offered by the Bank of Greece ranged (depending on deposit maturity) from (a) 93/4 percent to l O Vz percent for U .S. dollar accounts; (b) 9Vie percent to 10 percent for accounts in Canadian dollars, and (c) 91/8 percent to 97/s percent for accounts in pounds sterling. Should the depositor decide at the time of deposit to w i thdraw accrued interest in drachmas, the interest rate is in- creased by 1.5 percentage points annually. The banks are obliged to redeposit with the Bank of Greece at least 70 percent of the increase in such deposits after Ju ly 1, 1980, at interest rates set by the Bank of Greece in accordance w i th developments in the Eurodollar market. The remaining 30 percent can be deposited abroad, with other domestic banks, the Bank of Greece, or placed in other assets. 5. Deposits in other convertible currencies (excluding U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling). Greek citizens (including seamen) working abroad and certain Greek societies and associations operating abroad may open, with funds originating abroad, convertible foreign currency accounts in deutsche mark and other currencies (excluding U .S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and pounds sterling) w i th authorized banks in Greece. The period and the other terms of the deposits are freely determined by the banks. The Bank of Greece estab- lishes maximum interest rates for each type and currency of deposit based on developments in the internal money markets of the countries in whose currencies the deposits are denominated. Should the depositor decide at the time of deposit to withdraw accrued interest in drachmas, the interest rate is increased by 1.5 percentage points annually. At the end of 1983 the max imum annual interest rates4 payable on these accounts for some of the currencies ranged from (a) 5.5 percent to 8.5 percent for accounts in deutsche mark, (b) 9 percent to 15 percent for accounts in French francs, (c) 3.5 percent to 5.5 per- cent for accounts in Swiss francs, and (d) from 9 percent to 12 percent for accounts in Belgian francs. W i thdraw- als in drachmas entail the loss of the reconversion right for the sums withdrawn. The banks are obliged to surrender the entire foreign exchange proceeds to the Bank of Greece at fixed parities in exchange for drachmas. Balances on these accounts, including accrued interest are freely convert- ible into foreign exchange against reconversion of drachmas at the same fixed parities that were applied at the time of original conversion. Similar facilities for foreign currency accounts exist under a Housing Loan Deposit Scheme. The banks are not obliged to redeposit or in any way surrender to the Bank of Greece foreign exchange from the following deposit categories: (i) deposits of shipping 4These are defined as the interest rates for a deposit of the equ iva lent of US$200,000 in convertible currencies. GREECE (including shipowners'), insurance and construction companies and of Olympic Airways; and (ii) deposits above the equivalent of US$200,000 for each depositor w i th in the categories mentioned in 4 and 5 above and in all convertible currencies. 6. Blocked Accounts. All drachma assets of nonresi- dents other than those in External Sight Deposit Ac- counts must be declared, and are held in Blocked Accounts. Domestic bank notes in excess of Dr 3,000 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a Blocked Account, as must certain income accruing in Greece to nonresidents. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, balances on Blocked Ac- counts held by residents of all countries excluding Turkey and Israel may be used for such purposes as (a) travel expenses for each v is it to Greece and personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 200,000 a month of the visitor's stay in Greece and up to Dr 100,000 for other members of his fam i ly; for residents of Turkey or Israel, the corresponding limit is Dr 25,000 annually; (b) ex- penses for buying tickets for a maximum of two trips to Greece by the depositor and other members of his fam i ly; (c) expenses for paying taxes and lawyers' fees; and (d) investing in securities officially listed on the stock exchange in Greece and purchasing real estate in Greece. Payments abroad from funds in Blocked Ac- counts held by residents of countries that have special agreements w i th Greece5 may be released for remittance (a) if the money deposited is derived exclusively from rents, amounts of up to US$1,000 (or its equivalent) may be transferred abroad semiannually or (b) if the money deposited is derived exclusively from pensions and the holder has been resident abroad since before Decem- ber 31, 1975, up to US$300 a mon th, plus bonuses for New Year, Easter, and vacation, up to a total of US$4,200 annua l ly may be remitted abroad. Funds derived from dividends of postwar public loans and loans of public organizations are freely transferable abroad, and other balances on Blocked Accounts may be trans- ferred abroad if the prior approval of the Bank of Greece is obtained. All transfers between Blocked Accounts require prior approval. The amounts that may be with- drawn from Blocked Accounts differ in cases where the holders do not live in the countries listed in footnote 5. Balances on Blocked Accounts held by private individu- als in the EC member countries are scheduled to be released in six equal annual installments during the period January 1, 1981 to January 1, 1986. Blocked balances may be deposited either with the Bank of Greece, where they bear no interest, or with a commercial bank, the Consignations and Loans Fund, and the Postal Savings Bank, where they earn interest of 11.5 percent a year. 5Aus t ra l ia, Au s t r ia, Be lg ium, Canada, Denmark, France, Federal Repub l ic of Germany, Ice land, Ire land, I ta ly, Luxembourg, Nether- l and s, No rw ay, Portugal, Spa in, Sweden, Sw i tzer land, United King- dom, and Un i ted States. 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Resident Accounts Greek citizens have the option to open accounts in foreign exchange of the types described in paragraphs 4 and 5 above with foreign exchange earned as salaries from work abroad or as payments received for services performed outside Greece. Greek citizens are permitted to open time deposit accounts in foreign currencies w i th authorized banks in Greece w i thout stating the origin of the fund s; in the case of undeclared foreign bank notes, such deposit accounts could be opened only up to September 30, 1983. Such accounts can be for a term of either 6 or 12 mon ths, w i th the possibility of renewal. Interest rates are determined by the Bank of Greece on the basis of the rates preva i l ing in the international money markets. At the end of 1983, the max imum interest rates6 ranged (depending on size and maturity of deposit) from (a) 7 percent to 10.5 per- cent for accounts in U .S. dollars, (b) 5.5 percent to 9.75 percent for accounts in Canadian dollars, (c) 6 per- cent to 9.5 percent for accounts in pounds sterling, and (d) 4.5 percent to 6 percent for accounts in deutsche mark and others. Should the depositor decide at the time of deposit to withdraw accrued interest in drachmas, the interest rate would be increased by 1.5 percentage points annua l ly. The banks are obliged to redeposit the entire foreign exchange w i th the Bank of Greece. Imports and Import Payments1 Imports require approval (except those w i th an invoice value c . i . f. of the equivalent of US$1,100 or less, for which payment must be made through an authorized bank), wh ich is granted by a commercial bank. Commer- cial banks can finalize import applications only if rebates on invoices do not exceed 10 percent, or 50 percent if the value of the shipment is less than Dr 1 m i l l ion. All other cases relating to rebates on invoices are handled by the Import Exchange Control Committee of the Bank of Greece. The granting of an import approval implies that the necessary foreign exchange will be made available. Import approvals must be obtained prior to shipment and require the presentation of a certified pro forma invoice. Import licenses are required only for imports of commodities in Lists A and B ( inc lud ing textiles, television receivers, and certain foods tuffs, passenger cars, buses, and certain types of machinery and spare parts). For a few items on Lists A and B licenses are being issued restrictively, but for the remainder they are issued automatically. Special regulations govern imports of certain items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, narcotics, su l fu r, and motion-picture f i lms. Import licenses are not required for a few items in Lists 6These are defined as the interest rates for a deposit in conve r t ib le currencies equ iva lent to US$50,000. 7The import restrictions wh ich Greece imposed on Janua ry 13, 1983 on 11 industrial items and on February 18, 1983 on 5 more indu s t r ial items, covering less than 2 percent of Greece's total annual imports, remained in force un t il December 31, 1983. In add i t ion, Greece has sought the concurrence of the EC for the retention of the import restrictions introduced on January 13, 1983 on 5 indu s t r ial products. 216 A and B (such as tex t i les, cars, toys, certain types of mach ine ry, car t ire tubes, paper, ceramics, and cheese) if they are imported from EC countries. Private imports are subject to (1) restrictions on the method of paymen t; (2) controls over the time period required to make f inal settlement and the time of sh ipmen t; and (3) var ious advance deposit requirements. For the purpose of these regu la t ions, all private imports are classified in six l is ts (F, F-50/1-2, F-100/1-2, and P). Paymen ts for imports may be made by letter of credit, by cash against sh ipp ing documen ts, or by acceptance of time draf ts. Payment by time d ra ft is permitted only for goods in List P; there is no restriction on ma tu r i ty. For imports not inc luded in List P, the Committee for Regu la t ing Matters Concerning Imports at the Bank of Greece may au thor ize longer payment periods and may also approve deferred paymen t s. For imports included in List F, the commercial banks may occasionally authorize payment by acceptance of a t ime d ra f t. Payments for imports may be made on the presentation of entry documen ts. Var ious advance deposit requ iremen ts apply to im- ports inc luded in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2. Deposits are accepted by the in te rven ing commercial bank, which redeposits them w i th the Bank of Greece. These deposits do not bear any in teres t. Certain companies, public agencies, and organizations that have been designated pub l ic service in s t i tu t ions are exempt from the advance deposit requ i remen ts. Also exempt are du ty - f ree imports and imports of raw materials and semifinished products for processing and re-export, as well as imports of final products for re-export. The Committee for Regulating Matters Concerning Imports has authority to grant exemp t ion. D ifferent deposit requirements are stipu- lated, depending upon whether payments are made by letters of credit or cash against sh ipp ing documents. For items in List F, advance deposits are not required for imports for wh ich payment is to be made by acceptance of t ime draf ts or by cash against shipping documents. Gene ra l ly, when a letter of credit is opened, the importer is required to deposit in drachmas the entire amount of the credit w i th the in terven ing bank; this deposit is retained by the bank to safeguard against d e f au l t, and the f inal settlement is made against this deposit. Irrespective of whe ther payment is by letter of credit or by cash against sh ipp ing documents, a cash deposit related to the c . i . f. invoice va lue is required for imports included in Lists F-50/1-2 and F-100/1-2, as security for import du t ies and other taxes .8 This deposit must be made when the import approval is obtained and may not be re funded before a period of two to four mon ths from the date on wh ich it was made. Advance deposits are not required for capital goods and spare parts exempt from import du ty by virtue of the laws governing domestic or foreign investments. 8Th is cash deposit requ i rement was abolished on Janua ry 1, 1984. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The rates of deposit in effect in 1983 are set out below: Prepayment Security Total (In percent of invoice value} List F-50/1 12.5 5.0 17.5 4.0 1.6 5.6 List F-50/2 List F-100/1 25.0 10.0 35.0 List F-100/2 11 .2 Goods must be shipped w i t h in six mon ths and arrive in Greece w i th in three mon ths of sh ipmen t. F inal settlement of the value of imported goods must take place w i th in 60 days fo l low ing the date of arrival at the first Greek port. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 3.6 percent of the c . i . f. du ty-pa id and tax-paid va lue. Special regulations govern imports by state agencies, pub l ic entities, and public utility companies. 8.0 3.2 Payments for Invisibles Payments for inv is ib les require approval, wh ich is granted freely for expenses inc iden tal to au thor ized transactions. Residents traveling abroad for fam i ly reasons or tourism are entitled once a year to the equ iva lent of ECU 560 for travel to EC member coun tr ies and US$250 for travel to all other countries. In add i t ion, persons traveling to Cyprus are en t i t led to an a n n u al fore ign exchange allowance of US$450. In l ieu of th is a l low- ance, tourists participating in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration subm i t ted by the travel agency. Commercial banks operating in Greece are authorized to grant foreign exchange for va r ious categories of travelers (e .g ., indu s t r ia l i s t s, hoteliers, exporters, travel agents, jou rna l is ts) subject to a cer ta in maximum per diem or per tr ip l im it set by the Bank of Greece. The limits range from US$75-!20 a day to US$600—1,200 a trip, depending on the professional category. For allocations beyond these l im i t s, interested parties must submit documentation to the International Transactions Department of the Bank of Greece for approval. For medical treatment abroad, the Subcomm i t- tee authorizes any amount for transfer direct to a foreign hospital, provided that the relevant accounts are sub- mitted. For undergraduate and postgraduate s tud ie s, various allocations are au tho r ized, depending on the country of s tudy, such as US$560 and US$620 a mon th, respectively, for the Un i ted States and Canada; £ stg. 270 and £ stg. 330 a mon th, respectively, for the United Kingdom; and DM 880 and DM 1,040 a mon th, respectively, for the Federal Repub l ic of Ge rmany. Authorized banks are also empowered to grant foreign exchange up to US$200 to cover the in i t i al expenses of Greek nationals pu rsu ing postgraduate s tud ies abroad. Travelers may take w i th them a m a x im um of Dr 3,000 in Greek bank notes. Greek na t iona l s, not i n c l u d i ng those resident abroad, are required to declare all domes- tic and foreign bank notes and other va luab les taken w i th them upon leaving Greece. ,, Nonresident travelers on leaving Greece may freely take w i th them up to US$500 GREECE in foreign bank notes w i thout hav ing declared them upon en t ry; the export of larger amoun ts after a visit of less than 12 mon ths is also not subject to approval, provided that there was a declaration upon en t ry. Approval is required for larger sums that have been declared if the v i s it exceeds 12 mon ths. Paymen ts of in te res t, p ro f i ts, and dividends to coun- tries other than EC members are restricted, and special regu la t ions and l im i ts apply to outward remittances of in teres t, d iv idends, and profits (see section on Capital, be low). Exports and Export Proceeds Almost all exports require ind iv idual licenses and are free of qu an t i t a t ive l im i ta t ion. Beg inn ing in 1981, all transac t ions for exports were undertaken by commercial b ank s, ra ther than the Chamber of Commerce. Export proceeds mu st be surrendered w i th in 90 days from the date of export of the goods; in special cases, however, the au tho r i t ies are empowered to extend th is period up to two years for manu fac tu res and up to one year for other commod i t ies. Indus tr ial exporters can obtain subsidies in the form of interest rebates on loans or income tax deduc t ions. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services mu st be surrendered. Exchange proceeds from shipping are exempt from the surrender requirement, but ship- owners mu st cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Travelers may br ing in a max imum of Dr 3,000 in Greek bank notes. Any su rp lus is deposited in a Blocked Account w i th the Bank of Greece; subject to prior approval by the Bank, the surplus may be taken out on depar ture or spent in Greece on personal requirements. Greek res iden ts re tu rn ing to Greece mu st declare the foreign exchange in their possession if they wish to take it out for the next jou rney. Nonresident travelers of foreign na t iona l i ty may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it, and nonresidents ho ld ing Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange on ly if they in tend, when leaving Greece, to take out again foreign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equ iva len t. Capital Commercial banks and inves tment banks may borrow conver t ib le currencies abroad, provided that they extend med ium - te rm and long-term loans of equal amounts in foreign currency (or drachma loans w i th a foreign exchange c lause) to productive enterprises established in Greece. All other inves tmen ts in Greece by nonresidents are sub ject to approval (m a in ly for securing repatriation of imported cap i ta l ). Such approval is automatic for purchases of real estate for personal use, but repatriation of the proceeds of l iqu ida t ion is subject to the approval of the Bank of Greece. Under Legislative Decree 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE No. 2687/53, approved foreign inves tmen ts wh ich aim at the promotion of national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of Greece may be granted preferential treatment; th is decree also provides for the opening of foreign currency accounts by nonresidents and the retransfer of the deposits, as we ll as the transfer of interest thereon. In accordance w i th Article 5 of the Legislative Decree No. 2687/53, (1) approved inves tmen ts may not be repatriated before one year from the date the enterprise begins to operate productively and in no case before one year from the date the capital was imported. (2) The repatriation of foreign capital may not exceed 10 percent a year of the amount of capital imported. The repatria- tion of dividends on equ i ty capital and of interest on loan capital may not exceed 12 percent a year and 10 percent a year, respectively. But under Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, as amended by Law No. 849/78, enter- prises engaged in exports are granted h igher rates in respect of capital and profit remittances provided that the total amount required for this purpose does not exceed 30 percent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise from exports du r ing the same year. In the case of loan capital, this provision is applicable on the additional condition that such capital does not exceed twice the share capital of the enterprise and that the remittable amount does not exceed 20 percent annua l ly of loan capital. (3) Both originally and subsequen t ly imported funds for inves tment capital are considered as imported foreign capital. The total amount or a part of profits realized from foreign capital may also be consid- ered as foreign capital provided such profits are rein- vested in the enterprise. (4) In case of lease of mach in- ery, or other form of foreign capital, the amount of rental is transferable in foreign exchange. If part of the foreign capital imported has been repatriated, the transfer of profits is related to the part of the capital rema in ing in Greece and the transfer privilege expires as soon as all capital has been repatriated. However, for enterprises under Law No. 4171/61 (productive inves tment exceed- ing Dr 150 million or expansion exceeding Dr 50 m i l- lion), a percentage of the profits not exceeding 6 percent annua l ly on the repatriated part of the capital is allowed to be remitted abroad provided that th is percentage is not more than 8 percent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its product abroad. Deviations from the general regulations may be approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and m in ing products or invested in enterprises of special importance to the economy. Specified foreign short-term investment may also be granted preferential treatment in respect of the repatria- tion of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require ap- proval. The purchase abroad of securities or of real estate for personal use is not normally permitted. Gold Residents may freely purchase new gold sovereigns 218 ( i . e ., those issued since 1974) from the Bank of Greece, th rough licensed stockbrokers, at prices set by the Bank of Greece; these coins may be resold only to the Bank of Greece or to licensed stockbrokers. Holders of gold coin acquired in the free market that existed prior to Decem- ber 22, 1965 may sell these anonymously and w i thout fo rma l i ty to the Bank of Greece or to an authorized bank at the o f f ic ial price. Residents may deal free ly, however, in b u l l i o n. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange are on Import List F and require a special license; licenses are norma l ly issued to reputable import- ers for d is t r ibu t ion to recognized users, such as jewelers and den t is ts. Gold bars and gold coin may be imported free ly, for purposes other than commercial, by commer- c ial banks and other residents, as well as nonresidents when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved, except that gold bars or coin brought in by trave lers and declared upon entry may, w i th the prior approval of the B ank 's Credit Subcommittee, be re- exported by the same person. Changes During 1983 Nonresident Accounts June 28. Au thor iza t ion was granted for Greek citizens to open time deposit accounts in foreign currencies w i t h o ut s ta t ing the origin of the fund s. Imports and Import Payments January I. The advanced deposit requirements for specified imports were fu r ther reduced by one third of the level p reva i l ing du r ing 1982. January 11. The EC Commission granted permission for the extension of the quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports of f ive indu s t r ial products for the period from Janua ry 1, 1984 through October 31, 1984. January 23. The fo l low ing changes in import regula- t ions were announced, w i th effect from January 1, 1984: (a) abo l i t ion of all advance import deposits; (b) l i f t ing of all restrictions on method of paymen t, irrespective of the c lass i f ica t ion l i st of import items; (c) imposition of a l im it of 60 days from arrival date at the first Greek port for the se t t lement of import payments; and (d) extension to all import items of the exemption from approval requ i remen ts p rev ious ly granted to ind iv idual imports of Lists F and P items worth US$1,100 or less. February 2. The EC Commission granted permission for the in troduc t ion of quan t i ta t ive restrictions on im- ports of 11 indus t r ial products. (The restrictions were imposed from Janua ry 13, 1983 through December 31, 1983.) February 28. The EC Commission granted permission for the impos i t ion of quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports of f ive more indus tr ial products. (The restrictions were imposed from February 18, 1983 through December 31, 1983.) Exports and Export Proceeds January 25. In regard to the conversion into drachmas of foreign exchange proceeds from exports of industrial ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE products shipped prior to the deva lua t ion date, it was announced that 60 percent of the d ifference of the drachma equ iva lent of export proceeds as between conversion at the predeva lua t ion rate and the postdevalu- ation rate would be withheld and deposited in a non in ter- est-bearing special account at the Bank of Greece. May 4. Prefinancing of exports at rates of 10.5 percent and 14 percent was discontinued and a flat rate of 21.5 percent was applied to all export a c t iv i t i e s. In addition, it was announced that export proceeds surren- dered within the 90-day l im it would be subsidized by an amount equivalent to 6 percent of the drachma va lue. June 12. The 6 percent subs idy on export proceeds introduced on April 22, 1983 was extended to all cases, irrespective of the date of surrender of proceeds. September 9. It was announced that the 60 percent difference in export proceeds that was required to be withheld under a regu la t ion introduced on Janua ry 25, 1983 wou ld be refunded to exporters upon proof that the r em a in ing 40 percent was not su f f ic ient to cover costs associated w i th deva lua t ion. Payments for Invisibles January 1. The tou r ist allowance for travel to EC coun t r ies was raised from ECU 480 to ECU 560 a year. January 14. The max imum amount of Greek bank notes wh i ch travelers could br ing in or take out of the coun t ry was doubled to Dr 3,000. November 14. Increased limits were introduced in the per d iem and per tr ip foreign exchange allowances wh ich commerc ial banks were empowered to sell to certain categories of travelers, ranging from $75-120 a day (or $600-1,200 a t r ip) for indus t r ia l is ts, exporters- impor ters, hoteliers, travel agents, e tc ., to $100 a day ($800 a trip) for journa l is ts and persons participating in conferences or sem ina rs. 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GRENADA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Grenada is the East Caribbean Do l lar ,[ wh ich is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The East Caribbean do l lar is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the in terven t ion currency, at ECS2.70 = US$1. The ECCB also quotes da i ly rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. A 5 percent exchange tax is levied on all sales of fore ign exchange by commercial banks, except for paymen ts for imports of some basic foods and drugs. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all coun tr ies. It is adm in- istered by the Ministry of P lann ing, Finance, and Trade. The Ministry delegates to au thor ized dealers the au thor- ity to approve some import paymen ts and certain other outward payments. The exchange control directives do not apply to transactions w i th South A f r ica. Trade controls also are adm in is tered by the M in i s t ry of P lan- n ing, Finance, and Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th residents of member coun t r ies of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM )2 mu st be made either through External Accounts (in East Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CAR ICOM coun t ry concerned. Settlements w i th res iden ts of the former Sterling Area coun tr ies, other than CAR ICOM coun t r ies, may be made in s ter l ing, in any other former Sterling Area currency, or in East Caribbean dollars to and from External Accoun ts. Settlements w i th res iden ts of coun- tries outside the former Sterling Area other than South Africa may be made in any fore ign cu r rency3 or th rough an External Account in East Caribbean do l lars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonres iden ts by authorized dealers w i thout reference to the M in i s t ry of P lann ing, Finance, and Trade. These accounts are maintained in East Caribbean dollars. They may be credited w i th proceeds from the sale of foreign curren- cies, w i th transfers from other External Accoun ts, w i th bank interest (payable on External Accounts), and w i th payments by residents for wh ich general or specific permission has been given by the M in i s t ry. They may be debited for paymen ts to residents of Grenada, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business 'The East Caribbean do l lar is also the currency of A n g u i l l a, A n t i g ua and Barbuda, Dom in ica, Montserrat, S t. K i t t s -N e v i s, S t. L u c i a, and St. Vincent and Grenadines. 2The CAR ICOM coun tr ies are A n t i g ua and B a r b u d a, Ba rbado s, Belize, Dom in ica, G renada, G u y a n a, Jama ica, Mon tse r ra t, S t. K i t t s- Nev is, S t. Luc ia, S t. V i n c e nt and G renad ine s, and T r in id ad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. 220 purposes, and for any other paymen ts covered by delegated au tho r i ty to au thor ized dealers. Other debits and any overdraf ts requ i re i n d i v i d u al approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Afr ica are prohibited. Most goods may be f ree ly imported under open general license from all other coun t r ie s. Certain other commodities requ ire i n d i v i d u al l icen se s, un less they are imported from CAR ICOM coun t r ies. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon app l ica t ion and subm i s s ion of documentary evidence ( invo ices and cus toms wa r ran ts) to the M in is t ry of P l a n n i n g, F inance, and Trade; however, the M in is try has delegated to au tho r ized dealers powers to approve the payment of imports o r i g i n a t i ng in CARICOM countries. Advance paymen ts for impor ts also require prior ap- proval by th is M in i s t ry. Imports of e q u i pm e n t, spare parts, and raw materials for the m anu f a c tu re of approved goods are exempted from import du t ie s. Imports not exempt from customs du ty are subject to a s tamp tax of 20 percent of the c . i . f. v a lu e, as we ll as to an in te rna t ional airport levy amoun t ing to 5 percent of c . i . f. va lue. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for i n v i s i b l es require exchange control approva l. A u t h o r i ty has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for a few types of paymen t s. These inc lude foreign travel (for w h i ch up to EC$3,000 a person a calendar year may be allocated for p r iva te t ravel and up to EC$7,000 a person for bus iness t r av e l, or the equ iv a l ent of US$5,000 a year for t ravel ou ts ide the ECCB reg ion ), subscriptions to magaz ines and pe r iod ica ls, and l i fe insurance pre- m i ums on policies contracted before J u ne 1975. With the excep t ion of t o u r i sm, app l ica t ions for additional amoun ts or for purposes for wh i ch there is no basic a l loca t ion no rm a l ly are approved by the M in is try of P l ann ing, Finance, and Trade, provided that no unau- thorized t ran s fer of cap i tal is invo lved. Applications in respect of tou r i sm in excess of EC$3,000 a person are considered on the ir merits. The cost of transportation to any des t ina t ion may be settled in domestic currency and is not deducted from the t ravel a l loca t ion. Res ident t rave le rs may take out foreign currency notes and coin up to the equ iva lent of EC$3,000 and East Caribbean currency notes w i t h o ut l im i t. Nonresident travelers may f ree ly export any foreign currency previ- ous ly b rought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Sou th A f r i ca are proh ib i ted, and specific l icenses are requ i red for the export of certain goods to any des t ina t ion. There are no formal regulations to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ensure that export proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered w i th in a certain period from the date of shipment, but the collection of export proceeds is mandatory. Export duties are levied on an ima ls and specified agricultural goods, such as bananas, cocoa, nutmeg, coconuts, copra, cotton, and limes and related products. Proceeds from Invisibles The collection of the foreign currency proceeds from invisibles is mandatory. Travelers may bring in freely notes and coin in East Caribbean currency or in any foreign currency. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate abroad for private purposes is not normally permitted. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged w i th an authorized depository in Grenada, and earnings on these securities must be repatriated. Personal capital transfers, such as inheritances to nonresidents, require exchange control approval, wh ich normally is granted subject to the payment of estate and succession duties. There are certain allowances for cash gifts (EC$500 a person a year) and for emigration purposes. The Ministry of P lann ing, Finance, and Trade will also consider transfer applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Grenada and are proceed- ing to take up permanent residence abroad. Direct investment in Grenada by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remittance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such invest- ment is permitted, provided that all liabilities related to the investment have been discharged and that the original investment was registered w i th the M in is try of P lann ing, Finance, and Trade. Nonresidents may acquire in Grenada real estate for private purposes w i th funds in foreign currency; local currency f inanc ing is not ordi- narily permitted. The repatriation of the proceeds from GRENADA the realization of such investments requires the approval of the M in is try of P lann ing, Finance, and Trade. The approval of the Ministry is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresidents to borrow in Grenada. Authorized dealers may freely assume short- term l iab i l i ty positions in foreign currencies for the f inanc ing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Ministry. Gold Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for num isma t ic purposes. Imports of gold are permitted for industrial purposes only and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Trade. The export of gold is not normally permitted. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement October 1. The East Caribbean Currency Authority was succeeded by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank, and Grenada (as well as An t igua and Barbuda, Domin- ica, Montserrat, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines) continued to be a member of the ins t i tu t ion. Imports and Import Payments January 1. The stamp duty on imports was raised from 17.5 percent to 20 percent. June 10. The international airport levy on dutiable imports was raised from 2 percent to 5 percent of c . i . f. va lue. November 7. The list of commodities requiring indi- v idual licensing was reduced by one third. 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Gua tema la is the Gua tema lan Quet- zal, wh ich is pegged to the U . S. do l lar, the in te rven t ion currency, at Q 1 = US$1. The o f f ic ial b u y i ng and selling rates for the U . S. dollar are Q 1.00 and Q 1 .01, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and se l l ing rates for certain other currencies1 are also o f f ic ia l ly quo ted, ma in ly on the basis of the ir rates in the New York market. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On January 27, 1947 Gua tema la no t if ied the Fund that it was prepared to fo rma l ly accept the ob l iga t ions of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala is in charge of adm in is te r ing the Emergency Regime for controlling international capital movements, inc lud ing decisions on cases not spec i f ica l ly covered in this regime. However, the Depar tmen t's decisions may be appealed before the Monetary Board. Foreign ex- change transactions of the public sector are carried out exc lus ive ly through the Bank of Gua tema la, w h i le those of the private sector are made through banks au thor ized by the Monetary Board. Paymen ts in foreign currency must be approved by the Foreign Exchange Depar tmen t. Banks participating in the system may au tho r ize some foreign payments under powers delegated by the B a nk of Guatemala. Exports of goods and services must be registered in the Foreign Exchange Depar tment to guarantee the repatriation of the corresponding foreign exchange proceeds. Prescription of Currency In practice, most transac t ions in fore ign exchange are denominated in U . S. dollars. Transactions w i th other member countries of the Central Ame r ican Common Market (CACM)2 w i th respect to trade in inv i s ib l es are carried out in na t ional currencies3 th rough the Central American Clearing House; clearing se t t lemen ts are made in U .S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating outside the Central American region and wh ich require purchase of o f f ic ial fore ign exchange are subject to prior l icens ing from the Bank of 'A u s t r i an s ch i l l ing s, Be lg ian f ranc s, Canad ian d o l l a r s, deu tsche ma rk, French f rancs, I t a l i an l i re, Japanese y en, M e x i c an pesos, Ne ther lands g u i l d e r s, pounds s t e r l i n g, Span ish pese tas, Swed i sh kroner, and Swiss f ranc s. 2Costa R ica, El Sa lvador, Hondu ra s, and N i c a r a g u a. 3W i th the exception of Costa R ica and N i c a r agu a, t r an s a c t ions w i th wh ich are effected in U .S. dollars th rough Costa R i c an and N i c a r a g u an bank s. 222 Gu a t em a l a. These imports are d iv ided into six groups for wh ich import quo tas are set on the basis of their 1981 import v a lu e. The percentage of imports wh ich wou ld be a l lowed varies from 20 percent for products in Group 6, wh ich inc ludes cars, wood produc ts, and jewe l ry, up to 100 percent for products in Group 1, wh ich includes food products, med ic ine, and medical ins trumen ts, ag r i cu l tu r al i n p u ts and imp l em en t s, f u e l, lub r ican t s, and propane gas. Imports from Cen tral America in excess of Q 100 in each case requ i re reg is tra t ion w i th the M in is t ry of Economy. Import l icenses issued by the M i n i s t ry of Economy are requ ired for impor ts of maps of Gu a t em a l a, coffee beans and coffee p lan t s, exp lo s iv e s, lead, pou l t ry, m i l k, eggs, suga r, wheat f lou r, basic food g ra in s, cottonseed, tal- low, and a few other goods. Imports of cacao are proh ib i ted from all sources. Imports from Honduras are regu la ted by a b i la te ral trade agreement. Merchandise imports must be registered w i th the Foreign Exchange Depa r tment or one of the au thor ized banks (imports from the o ther Cen tral Ame r ican coun tr ies covered by the General Treaty for Economic In teg ra t ion of Central America are exempt from th is requirement); the Bank of Gua tema la w i ll issue fore ign exchange licenses for import paymen ts on ly against or ig inal b i l ls of lading and invo ices w i th s ta t i s t ical in fo rma t ion consistent w i th the import reg i s t ra t ion. Except in the case of transactions below US$5,000 and impor ts made d irec t ly by autho- rized banks on beha lf of importers w i th letters of credit or trade c red i t s, a 25 percent guarantee deposit, to be made at the t ime of reques t ing foreign exchange, is requ ired in the case of prepayments for imports. De- posits may be made in cash, bank guarantees, or government bonds and are re fundab le when the Bank of Gua tema la has received from the importer a document issued by customs ve r i fy ing the arrival of the merchan- d ise. Foreign exchange licenses for paymen ts f a l l ing due w i ll be issued on ly if such a request is accompanied by ev idence of purchase of 1983 S tab i l iza t ion Bonds denominated in U .S. dollars in an amount equivalent to the requested amount of foreign exchange, except for f rac t ions of less than Q 100. Requests for payments to Central Amer ican coun t r ies, for paymen ts abroad by gove rnment i n s t i t u t i o ns and for paymen ts in connection w i th t r av e l, rem i t tances for f am i ly support, education, med ical t r e a tm ent and ho sp i t a l i z a t ion, and the like are exempted from t h is pu rchase requ i remen t. Under the p rov is ions of the Central Amer ican Agree- ment on Fiscal In c en t iv e s, Gua tema la gran ts du ty exon- erations on imports of raw ma ter ia ls and capital goods to approved i n d u s t r i al f i rm s. Impor ts o r i g i n a t i ng ou ts ide the Central American Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 percent of the app l icab le import d u t y. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are l im i ts on payments for inv i s ib le s, as follows: (1) purchases of foreign exchange for university Study abroad are limited to US$1,000 for moving expenses and a monthly allowance of US$500 for room and board; no limit is applied on remittances for tu i t ion expenses; allowances for participants in technical courses and training are the same as those for un ive rs i ty students, except that moving expenses are not included; (2) remittances to dependents abroad are restricted to a monthly limit of US$500 but not exceeding US$1,250 a family; (3) foreign exchange allowances for nonbusiness travel abroad are limited for each person to US$100 a day and US$2,000 a year (US$50 a day and US$1,000 a year for children under 12 years); for travel to Mexico, foreign exchange is authorized and sold through draf ts denominated in U .S. dollars and payable to order under the Clearing and Reciprocal Credit Agreement between the member central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Banco de Mexico, S .A .; w i th in authorized limits, an amount of Mexican pesos in cash equivalent to up to Q 100 a person may be authorized for such travel; for tourist travel to other Central American countries the limits are US$1,200 a year or US$100 a day (US$50 a day and US$600 a year for ch i ldren under 12 years); and foreign exchange for such travel is authorized and sold exc lus ive ly through checks denom- inated in quetzales and payable through the Central American Clearing House in currencies of Central American countries; all purchases of foreign exchange for nonbusiness travel require a guarantee deposit equ iv- alent to 50 percent of the exchange purchased, which is refunded on presentation of evidence show ing the n um- ber of days spent abroad or, if appropriate, the sale of the unused amount to an authorized bank; (4) foreign exchange allowances for business travel abroad are limited to US$150 a day, w i th no ce i l ing applied on each trip or each year, provided that it can be established that the expenses are borne by the f i rm for wh ich the t r ip is undertaken (the da i ly limit can be extended in special cases but not beyond US$200); (5) foreign exchange is authorized for medical treatment abroad provided that the need is substantiated; substantiation of the use of foreign exchange must be subm i t ted w i th in 30 days of the individual's return to Guatemala; and (6) remittances abroad by foreign workers are limited to one third or two thirds of their salaries, w i th in monthly limits of Q 500 or Q 1,250 a rec ip ien t, depending upon whe ther the immediate fam i ly resides in Guatemala or abroad; there is a mon th ly limit of Q 1,500 on em igra t ing foreigners w ish ing to transfer the ir severance pay and the pro- ceeds from the sale of their property in Gua tema la. All international air passages are subject to a tax of 13 percent. Receipts from invisibles accruing to residents must be declared and sold to the Bank of Guatemala or to an authorized private commercial bank. Exempted from th is requirement are foreign exchange earnings of foreign nationals from their inves tmen ts or other operations GUATEMALA abroad wh i le these earnings are maintained outside Gua tema la. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licenses issued by the M in is try of Economy. Exports of a few other items are prohibited, inc lud ing the export of gold (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license) and silver in any form. Travelers may, however, take out up to Q 25 in silver coin that is legal tender in foreign countries. Exporters must obtain export licenses is- sued by the Foreign Exchange Department before the Guatemalan customs can authorize shipment of the merchandise; the granting of export licenses is contin- gent on agreement to sell export proceeds to the Bank of Guatemala w i th in three months of the date of issuance. Exports to El Salvador, Honduras, and Costa Rica with a va lue of up to Q 200 in each case are exempted from the licensing requ iremen t. Export taxes are levied on a number of traditional export items (coffee, cotton, sugar, beef, shrimp and bananas); these taxes are scheduled to be eliminated after mid-1985, except for those levied by municipalities. Capital All ex is t ing foreign assets held abroad by Guatemalan residents and all obligations to foreigners must be registered w i th the Bank of Guatemala; such registration is a precondition for authorizing remittances of divi- dends, prof i ts, interest, and amortization. Any other outward capital transfer is prohibited. All investment by foreign or foreign-controlled companies in the construc- tion of private hous ing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. Investment in the petroleum sector is governed by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Guatemala is obliged to purchase all gold offered to it, either directly or through the banks, and is en t i t led to requ ire the surrender, directly or through authorized banks, of the gold holdings of any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artistic or industrial users, in accordance w i th directives of the Monetary Board. The export of gold is prohibited except when the Bank of Gua tema la issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes During 1983 Prescription of Currency November 10. The Bank of Guatemala restricted acceptance of Nicaraguan cordobas to settlement of exports, and up to a specified portion of total export receipts. Imports and Import Payments July 7. The Mone tary Board authorized the Bank of Guatemala to issue 1983 Stabilization Bonds denomi- nated in U .S. dollars, up to the equivalent of US$400 m i l l i o n. W i th specified exceptions, such bonds must be 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA purchased to be e l ig ib le to obtain foreign exchange licenses for payments fa l l ing due abroad. November 28. Temporary import l icens ing requ ire- ments were introduced on imports o r ig ina t ing from El Salvador, Honduras, N icaragua, and Costa R ica, except for items w i th a va lue of up to Q 100. The M in i s t ry of Economy was put in charge of adm in is te r ing the system. December 19. The M in is t ry of Finance abolished the import license requ irement for imports from Costa R ica. Payments for Invisibles July 25. A regulation was introduced spec ify ing tha t, for travel to Mexico, foreign exchange would be autho- rized and sold through draf ts denominated in U .S. dollars and payable to order under the Clearing and Reciprocal Credit Agreement between member central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Banco de Mexico, S .A .; w i th in authorized l im i t s, an amount in Mexican pesos equ iva lent to up to Q 100 a person could be authorized in cash for such t rave l. September 7. It was announced tha t, for travel to Central America, foreign exchange wou ld be au thor ized and sold through checks denominated in que tza les and payable through the Central American Clearing House in currencies of Central Amer ican coun tr ies. Exports and Export Proceeds July 12. A schedule for the gradual elimination of export taxes (except m u n i c i p al taxes) on traditional exports (coffee, co t ton, sugar, bananas, beef, and sh r imp) was announ c ed. The taxes were to be reduced by 50 percent by J u ly 12, 1983, by 75 percent by J u ly 1, 1984, and e l im in a t ed by J u ly 1, 1985. July 12. A system of tax credit certificates (CATs) for non t rad i t ional exports was in troduced, under wh ich CAT bene f i ts amoun t ing to 10 percent of the f .o .b. export va lue wou ld be granted to exporters of nontraditional i tems, if exported to countries hav ing no bilateral or mu l t i la te ral free trade agreements w i th Guatemala. The bene f i ts wou ld amount to 15 percent in the case of new non t rad i t ional exports; and wou ld also apply to new non t rad i t ional exports to coun tr ies hav ing bilateral or mu l t i l a t e r al trade agreements w i th Guatemala if the products were not covered under such agreement. (By end-1983, the f a c i l i ty had not been operational, as the im p l em e n t i ng regu la t ions had not been issued.) November 7. L icen s ing requ iremen ts were imposed on exports to N ica ragua. December 2. L icens ing requ i remen ts were imposed on exports to El Salvador, Honduras, and Costa Rica, except for sh ipmen ts of up to Q 200. 224 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guinea is the Gu inean Sy l i, wh ich is pegged to the SDR at GS 24.6853 = SDR 1. Exchange rates for 14 currencies1 quoted by the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea are determined on the basis of the value of the syli in terms of the SDR and the transaction value of these currencies in terms of the SDR. Exchange rates for the CFA franc and the Ma li franc resu lt from the relationship between these currencies and the French franc. Exchange rates for other currencies2 are deter- mined in accordance w i th the appropriate cross rates in international markets. Application of the off ic ial ex- change rate is limited for the time being to exchange transactions effected through the o f f ic ial channe l; all other exchange transactions are effected th rough a free parallel market. This arrangement invo lves a mu l t ip le currency practice. Transactions under the bilateral pay- ments agreement with the People's Republic of Ch ina are settled in renminbi at the rate of GS 10.030 per Y 1. Administration of Control Exchange control au tho r i ty is vested in the Central Bank, which is under the direct supervision of the Presidency. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers. All settlements w i th foreign countries, including paymen ts for imports, requ ire ap- proval by the Central Exchange Bureau of the Central Bank. Import and export licenses are issued by IMPOR- TEX, a state enterprise, w i th in the framework of annual import and export programs. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transac t ions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established unde r, the provisions of the agreements.3 Settlements w i th the Central Bank of West A f r ican States (for B en in, Ivory Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Gu inea -B i s sau, L iber ia, M a l i, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are no rma l ly made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Set- tlements w i th other countries are made in designated "convertible" currencies quoted by the Central B ank. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Nonres i- dent Transferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies and 'Be lg ian francs, Canad ian do l lars, Dan ish k rone r, deu tsche m a rk, French f rancs, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese y en, N e th e r l ands gu i ld e r s, pounds sterling, Sierra Leonean leones, Span ish pesetas, Swed ish k rono r, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. Principally, the Saudi Arab ian r iy a l. 3Gu inea ma in ta ins b i la teral paymen ts agreements w i th A lge r ia, the People's Republic of Ch ina, Cuba, and V iet N am; a ll but the agreement w i th Ch ina are inope ra t ive. Non res ident Accoun ts in Sy l is. The opening of a nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Central Exchange Bu reau. Imports and Import Payments All imports (as well as exports) are centralized at the level of IMPORTEX. A specified list of goods can be imported on ly th rough the off ic ial channel by the public sector, n am e l y, educational and pharmaceutical sup- p l ies, f u e l, sugar, r ice, and flour. The import licenses are of two types: "licenses w i th settlement" and "licenses w i t h o ut se t t lemen t" ( i . e ., imports are f inanced by the importers' own foreign exchange). The first type of license is m a in ly for those imports of the public enterprises and m in is tr ies that are part of the import program, wh i le the second type of license is for the pr iva te sector imports. Regarding the pub l ic sector, an annual program of imports is presented by each public enterprise and forwarded to the respective m in is t ry, wh ich aggregates its overall import needs before for- wa rd ing them to IMPORTEX. These requests are discussed by an interministerial committee (commission de con- trole des licenses}, wh i ch has the u l t ima te authority to decide on the f inal composition of imports; on this basis, a n n u al import quo tas are allocated to each m in is t ry. If one m i n i s t r y 's requ iremen ts should exceed its quota, it wou ld have to make a special request to the interministe- r ial committee; the de term in ing criterion in such cases is the urgency of the need. In any case, any extra amount allowed beyond the original quota would normally be deducted from the quo ta for the fo l low ing year. The execu t ion of the import program is closely monitored to ensure that actual imports comply w i th the authorities' imports. Shou ld the foreign exchange situation permit, an annual program could be expanded in favor of necessities. Once an import license has been issued, authorization for the corresponding payment is granted by the Central Exchange Bu r e au. Imports by foreign concession holders require import licenses for statistical purposes on ly and are not restricted. The annual import program takes in to consideration the sources of imports and the ava i lab i l i ty of convertible currencies and of balances under paymen ts agreements. Certain impor ts, inc lud ing most private sector im- ports, are effected ou ts ide the import program. This category comprises goods for wh ich foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the off ic ial foreign exchange resources of Gu inea and covers ma in ly imports by two "mixed-economy companies" (the Friguia Com- pany and the Gu inea Baux i te Company), the foreign embass ies, imports made directly for the execution of the F ive-Year P lan, and imports by private traders not invo lv ing purchase of foreign exchange through the o f f ic ial ma rket (sans reglement financier). 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA All commodities are subject to import surcharges, except when imported by the "mixed-economy companies." Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles through the official foreign exchange market require the authorization of the Central Exchange Bureau. Payments for freight and insurance in connection w i th imports are authorized as part of the import license. No official exchange is granted for other types of insurance w i th companies abroad. There is no official exchange allocation for tourist or business travel; each application is considered ind iv idua l ly. Government officials on official missions are permitted an allowance of GS 600 a day. Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equivalent of GS 16,351 for each pilgrimage and, in addition, up to GS 22,000 to pay for fares. In cases of serious illness, where a doctor's certificate is subm i t ted, residents are granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or are permitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Ind i- vidual authorization is required for the payment in Guinea of all fares for foreign travel. Payments for fam i ly support through the o f f ic ial market may be made up to mon th ly amoun ts determined on the merits of the case; for o f f ic ia l ly recognized s tudy abroad, the allocation is the equ iva lent of the amount of a government scholarship, that is, GS 2,500 a mon th, but students beg inn ing their studies abroad are granted an additional foreign exchange allowance of up to GS 4,000. The Foreign Investment Law guarantees that at least 20 percent of the net annual profits of approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad through the official market; the percentage actually permitted depends on the agreement concluded between the enter- prise concerned and the Government. Expatriate workers employed by the public sector in Gu inea may transfer abroad through the off ic ial market 40 percent of the ir net monthly salaries, and those employed by the pr iva te sector are permitted to transfer up to 30 percent of the ir net monthly salaries on the same basis. The export of Guinean currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds IMPORTEX establishes an annual export program for all public sector exports except those of the "mixed- economy companies." All exports require ind iv idual licenses in order to (1) assure the implementation of the export program (particularly in respect of commitments under bilateral trade agreements); (2) permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e .g ., special taxes payable in foreign exchange are levied on the volume of baux i te and a l um i na exported); (3) prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption; and (4) prevent the export of capital. For the following commodities, special authori- zation from designated agencies is required in addition to the export license: wild animals (dead or a l ive), edible animals, articles of historic or ethnographic interest, 226 jewe l ry, articles made of precious me ta ls, and plants and seeds. An export license is granted on ly when the exporter assumes the obligation to surrender the pro- ceeds immed ia te ly after they are collected. Foreign p lan ters may be granted special transfer privileges related to the q u a n t i ty of pineapples, bananas, or c i t rus f ru i ts exported, and private traders may also be permitted to retain a part of their export proceeds in order to f inance au thor ized imports. The mixed-economy companies are allowed to retain their export proceeds abroad, to pay for the ir imports and operating require- men ts, and to service their external debt. For diamond producers, there is an auc t ion arrangement operated by the Central B a n k, under wh ich producers are paid 60 percent of proceeds in foreign currency and the remainder is converted at the o f f ic ial exchange rate. Proceeds from Invisibles In p r inc ip le, exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of inv i s ib les are required to be surrendered. The import of foreign bank notes and traveler's checks is perm i t ted f ree ly, subject to declaration on en try, but both mu s t, in principle, be surrendered w i th in 24 hours after en t ry. Non res ident travelers may repurchase and re- export the foreign exchange declared upon en try, after deduc t ion of the ir local expend i tu res; th is deduction may not be less than the equ iv a l ent of US$20 for each day of th e ir s tay, un le ss ev idence can be produced to show that actual expend i tu re was less. The import of Guinean currency is p roh ib i ted. Capital All cap i tal t rans fe rs th rough the official market require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean na t iona ls th rough the o f f ic ial market are prohibited. The Foreign Investment Law of April 5, 1962 pro- vides guaran tees aga inst the na t iona l iza t ion of foreign inv e s tm en ts in the indus t r ial and m in ing sectors. It also provides for p re fe ren t ial tax and customs treatment app l icab le to foreign inve s tmen ts and for the transfer of p ro f i ts, in te res t, amo r t iza t ion, and l iqu ida t ion proceeds of such inve s tmen t s. Under a special investment law passed in Augu st 1977, freedom of movement and other p r iv i leges are granted to funds remitted and placed in Gu inean banks by nonresident Guineans. In accordance w i th the terms of the Inves tment Law of February 1, 1980, small and medium-sized enterprises in which at least GS 25 m i l l i on is invested over a 3-year period may receive tax exemp t ions for a period of 7 to 10 years. Exemp t ions for up to 25 years may be granted on long- term inves tmen ts of par t icu lar importance to the economy. There are arrears on external paymen ts, mostly in respect of debt service paymen ts. Gold Gu inea has four issues of commemorative gold coin, wh ich are legal tender. Furthermore, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Gu inea for numismatic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution purposes. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Changes During 1983 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system GUINEA 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA-BISSAU (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Gu inea-B issau is the Gu inea-B issau Peso. Guinea-Bissau follows a f lex ib le exchange rate policy under which the exchange rate of the Gu inea- Bissau peso in terms of the SDR is adjusted at re la t ive ly short intervals on the basis of domestic price devel- opments, external market conditions, export trends, and the overall balance of payments position. Da i ly buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, and for other foreign currencies are fixed within limits of 1.8 percent of the SDR rates for these currencies. On December 31, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates of the National Bank of Gu inea-B issau (the central bank) for the U .S. dollar were PG 82.54 and PG 85.57, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Foreign exchange transactions are under the control of the Foreign Exchange Department of the central bank. Foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the central bank. Residents must declare to the central bank all their physical assets and foreign exchange ho ld ings abroad. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th all foreign countries mu st be made in foreign currency. The central bank may prescribe the currency in wh ich export earnings shall be received. Guinea-Bissau ma in ta ins a bilateral paymen ts agreement with Algeria. Settlements w i th the Central Bank of West African States (for Ben in, Ivory Coast, N ige r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta) and The Gamb ia, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Ma l i, Mau r i tan ia, N ige r ia, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West A f r ican Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to prior licensing. In principle, licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Handicrafts in line w i th ava i lab i l i ty of foreign exchange and on the basis of a mon th ly ceiling fixed by the central bank. Licenses are va l id for the period of the import transaction. Licenses granted have to be presented to the central bank w i th in 15 days. Only importers registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Hand icraf ts may receive licenses. Each license specifies the qu an t i ty and value (c . i . f. and f .o .b .) of the product imported, and a separate license is required for each product. Retail traders receive imported products in proportion to their exports of agricultural products, and private exporters of nontraditional products are authorized to use a portion of their foreign exchange receipts to pay for merchandise imports. Licenses for project-related imports f inanced by 228 foreign loans or grants are granted automatically. Import licenses are normally provided w i th in 8 to 15 days of a documented request. Imports of essential foodstuffs, such as rice and sugar, are state monopolies. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for inv is ib les require the prior approval of the Committee of Foreign Exchange Control. Foreign exchange allocations for many payments for invisibles, inc lud ing those for tourism and for the purchase of stocks, bonds, real estate, and profit remittances, have been temporarily suspended. Transfers of pension pay- ments are authorized in accordance with specific criteria. A l though no foreign exchange may be purchased for tou r ism, airplane tickets can be bought using domestic currency. A i r l ine companies may transfer in foreign exchange the d ifference between their payments and receipts in Gu inea-B issau pesos. These transfers are approved on an ad hoc basis. Foreign exchange allowances for business travel are l im i ted to PG 30,000 a tr ip. For study abroad foreign exchange is granted up to PG 6,000 in the first month and PG 3,500 in each of the fo l low ing months (PG 5,000 for students enrolled in middle-level and higher-level courses). Allowances for travel for health reasons are permitted up to PG 20,000. Remittances to close re la t ives (parents and ch i ldren) living abroad are per- mitted up to PG 2,500 a mon th. Foreign travelers may take out any rema in ing foreign currency declared upon en t ry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Only exporters registered w i th the M in is t ry of Commerce and Handi- crafts may ob ta in export licenses, which are granted au toma t ica l ly in most cases. Exports of groundnuts are reserved for the Government and are effected by two state companies, the People's Stores and SOCOMI. Other products exported on ly by the Government include palm kernels, sawn wood and logs, shrimp, fish, beer, nona lcoho l ic beverages, groundnut oil, and parquet f loor ing. Private exporters of nontraditional products are authorized to use a portion of their foreign exchange receipts to pay for merchandise imports. All exports are subject to a general fee of 1 percent, and certain exports are also subject to export taxes. All export proceeds must be surrendered to the central bank. A special regime applies to exports destined for countries of the Economic Commun i ty of West Afr ican States (ECOWAS). Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may br ing in any amount of foreign cur- rency. Foreign a ir l ine companies must cover the excess of their expend i tures over revenues in Guinea-Bissau ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution pesos by transfers from abroad or by the sale of their foreign exchange receipts for Guinea-Bissau pesos. All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the central bank. Capital Foreign investment operations are guided by the Investment Code introduced in 1980. Under this Code, exchange control is exercised over capital receipts and payments. Capital transfers associated w i th emigration are authorized by the "transitory norms" w i th in a monthly limit of PG 50,000 and up to 20 percent of total taxable income earned during a period of not more than ten years. At present, however, such transfers are suspended. Gold Exports and imports of gold are prohibited, except when authorized by the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Finance. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement December 23. The Guinea-Bissau peso was devalued from PG 44 = SDR 1 to PG 88 = SDR 1, and it was announced that the exchange rate could henceforth be adjusted by the National Bank at monthly intervals on the basis of domestic price developments, external market conditions, export trends, and the overall balance of payments position (Decree No. 33/83). Imports and Import Payments December 23. It was announced that a system would be introduced under wh ich imported products would be GUINEA-BISSAU distributed to retail traders in proportion to the agricul- tural export products collected and delivered to the state marketing system by them in the preceding crop year. In addition, the Ministry of Commerce and Handicrafts would authorize private traders to export nontraditional products and would allot to them a portion of the related foreign exchange earnings to finance their import payments. Details of the implementing regulations were scheduled to be issued w i th in 30 days (Decree No. 35/83). December 23. The schedules of customs duties and taxes on maritime trade were modified (Decree No. 36/83). Exports and Export Proceeds December 23. With effect from January 1, 1984, the export duties levied under Legislative Instrument No. 1825 of January 4, 1965 were abolished and replaced by a restricted tariff schedule for certain goods, including a special regime for goods destined to ECOWAS countries (Decree No. 36/83). December 23. It was announced that a system would be introduced under which imported products would be distributed to retail traders in proportion to the agricul- tural export products collected and delivered to the state marketing system by them in the preceding crop year. In addition, the Ministry of Commerce and Handicrafts would authorize private traders to export nontraditional products and would allot to them a portion of the related foreign exchange earnings to finance their import payments. Details of the implementing regulations were scheduled to be issued within 30 days (Decree No. 35/83). 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position on December 3 J, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Guyana is the Guyana Dollar, wh ich is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at G$3.00 = US$1. Movements in the external value of the Guyana dollar are determined by the movement in the rates of selected currencies in a composite basket. The initial currencies selected for the basket are the U .S. dollar, the pound sterling, the deutsche ma rk, the Trinidad and Tobago dollar, and the Japanese yen. On December 31, 1983 the official buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were C$2.9981 and C$3.0131, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and se l l ing rates for certain other currencies1 are also off ic ia l ly quoted, w i th daily quotations based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. The Bank of Guyana (the central bank) charges commissions at d ifferent rates on the purchase and sale of the o f f ic ia l ly quoted currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Guyana formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the M in is ter of Finance who has entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. Authority for approving current payments up to specified amounts is delegated to the banks authorized for this purpose; all other import paymen ts and certain payments in respect of current inv is ib les of a personal nature require the approval of the Bank of Guy an a. The Ministry of Trade and Consumer Protection is responsi- ble for issuing import and export licenses, but import licenses require the endorsement of the Bank of Guyana. Prescription of Currency Exchange control applies to all coun tr ies, and all currencies other than the Guyana dollar are considered foreign currencies. Authorized paymen ts, inc lud ing pay- ments for imports, by residents of Guyana to residents of countries outside Guyana may be made in any foreign currency or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts from countries outside Guyana may be obtained in any foreign currency (in any listed specified currency2 for export proceeds) or in Guyana dollars from an External Accoun t. 'Barbados dollars, Canadian do l la rs, East Ca r ibbean do l la r s, Jama i- ca dollars, pounds s ter l ing, and Tr in idad and Tobago do l la rs. 2Aus tr ian sch i l l ing s, Be lg ian f rancs, Canad ian do l la rs, Dan i sh kroner, deutsche mark, French f rancs, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese yen, Netherlands gu i lders, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, and U .S. dollars. 230 Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: External Accounts and Blocked Accoun ts. External Accounts may be opened, w i th exchange control approval, for persons resident outside Guyana. They may be credited free ly w i th all authorized pay- ments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents and with transfers from other External Accoun ts; other credits requ ire approval. They may be debited freely for paymen ts for any purpose to residents of any coun t ry, for transfers to other Ex ternal Accoun ts, and for w i thdraw- als by the account holder wh i le he is in Guyana; other debits requ ire approval. Blocked Accounts may, in p r inc ip le, be credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonres iden ts ( e .g ., certain capital proceeds); these ac- counts may be debited for certain authorized payments, inc lud ing the purchase of approved securities. Since mid-1978 Blocked Accounts have been used to hold domestic currency deposits equ iva lent in value to pend- ing applications for foreign exchange. Such deposits carry a market-related interest rate but no exchange rate guarantee. Imports and Import Payments All imports from or that transit South Afr ica are p roh ib i ted. Imports of certain other commodities are also prohibited from all sources. Permissible imports are subject to ind iv idual l icens ing, but the following com- modities are exempted: passenger's baggage, household effects and personal effec ts, bona fide patterns and samples that have a stipulated f .o .b. va lue, parcel post i tems of a certain va lue imported by ind iv idua ls, and g i f ts subject to certain conditions. In addition, from May 1, 1982 a scheme was to be introduced under wh ich a manufacturer would be permitted to import spare parts up to c . i . f. va lue of C$5,000 and any items of equipment or mach inery up to c . i . f. va lue of C$10,000 w i thout a need to apply for an import license, provided that no foreign exchange from Guyana wou ld be required to pay for the imports; the scheme has, however, so far not become opera t iona l. An import license is granted on a re la t ive ly free but pr ior i ty basis as follows: (1) raw materials for the m anu f a c tu re of essential items, (2) essential i tem s, (3) raw materials for manufacturers serving the export marke ts and the essential services in indu s t ry, (4) equ ipment and materials for sawmills in the t imber i n d u s t r y, (5) commodities for hatcheries, (6) spare parts, (7) pe tro leum produc ts, (8) importation by in te rna t ional o rgan iza t ions and d ip loma t ic personnel, and (9) drugs. However, an application for an import license w i ll not norma l ly be approved for commodities when s im i lar ones are produced locally and at reasonable ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution levels to supply domestic needs or sustain exportation. Public sector corporations have a monopoly over the importation of specified commodities from all sources. Import licenses are issued in respect of certain specified commodities only to that government corporation wh ich has been identified to procure them cen tra l ly. When the responsibility of handling imports of any commodity has been given to a single government agency w i th a view to eliminating duplication of ordering between such agen- cies, the relevant licenses are issued only to that corporation. A similar course of action is adopted when standardization of commodities is involved. As a general rule, licenses are issued for the procurement of suppliers for the retail and distributive sectors of the economy, only to government corporations, where responsibility is to order on a national, rather than a local basis. Licenses are not normally made available to private sector concerns or individuals for goods to be disposed of by retail trade, other than to dealers in spare parts. Import licenses continue to be approved for specialized require- ments of government and private concerns connected with sugar, bauxite, rice, timber, and manufacturing industries, as the case may be. There are no import quotas, but the granting of import licenses is subject in large measure to the ava i lab i l i ty of foreign exchange. All applications for foreign exchange must be accompanied by a domestic currency deposit of equivalent value, to be held in blocked accounts w i th commercial banks. Commercial banks are required to maintain a 100 percent reserve requirement against these deposits at the Bank of Guyana. There has been an accumulation of commercial arrears. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries require ap- proval, wh ich, except for tourist travel, is usua l ly given freely, provided that no illegal capital transfer is in- volved, but there has been some accumulation of arrears. The basic annual exchange allocation for tourist travel is G$200 a person and is not cumu la t ive. The allocation for education depends on each circumstance and is granted in terms of foreign currency needs. Resident and nonresident travelers are subject on departure to an exit tax of G$10 a person. Persons traveling abroad may take w i th them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$40; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. The equivalent of G$60 may be taken out in actual currency notes as part of the foreign exchange allowance for foreign travel. Nonresident travelers may, w i th in one month of their last entry, freely take out any foreign currency notes declared upon en try. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Rice may be exported only by the Guyana Rice Board, sugar only by the Guyana Sugar Corporation, and bauxite and alumina only by the Guyana Mining Enterprise Limited. Certain other exports also are channeled through o f f ic ial GUYANA agencies. Most exports do not require export licenses, but transactions are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in listed specified currencies (see footnote 2), surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all exports exceeding C$200 in va lue. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies (see footnote 2) received on account of inv is ib les must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in foreign bank notes; domestic bank notes up to a va lue of G$40 may be brought in by re tu rn ing travelers on ly. Capital Private inves tmen t, both foreign and domestic, is governed by the Private Inves tment Code of 1979. Foreign investors must apply to the Bank of Guyana for approved status for new investments at the time of investment in order to be able to repatriate capital. Such approval is normally g iven for direct investments in new projects that wou ld benefit the balance of payments or the economy of Guyana; "approved status" assures that profits may be remitted, and that upon l iqu ida t ion of the inves tmen t, the proceeds, in c lud ing any capital incre- ments after payment of all taxes, may be repatriated in f u ll in the currency of the original inves tmen t. For the time being, however, foreign-based companies and their subsidiaries can borrow in Guyana only with the express approval of the Bank of Guyana. The export of capital by residents is not normally permitted. Listed specified currencies (see footnote 2) obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank, but other curren- cies may be retained by the recipient. Emigrants of Guyanese na t iona l i ty may not transfer abroad any part of their capital assets other than a settling-in allowance of G$100 for each member of a fam i ly un i t; emigrants of foreign na t iona l i ty may export all declared capital assets, an amount of G$24,000 a fam i ly un it at the time of emigration and G$17,300 in each successive calendar year. Borrowing from nonresidents requires exchange con- trol approval. However, pub l ic ly owned enterprises are encouraged to borrow abroad for the f inanc ing of specific projects and in some instances for working capital purposes. Since mid-1979 any borrowing by a pub l ic sector corporation is subject to prior approval by the Government Debt Committee. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for num isma t ic purposes, and also jewe l ry. W i th these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authori- ties, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and autho- rized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, at home or abroad, w i thout special 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA permission. Neither the Bank of Guyana nor any other official ins t i tu t ion purchases gold to supply domestic indus t ry. Imports and exports of gold in any form by or on behalf of the monetary au thor i t ies, authorized deal- ers, producers of gold and industrial users, require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Trade. Residents traveling abroad are allowed to take out w i th them jewelry up to a va lue of G$600, C$400, and G$200, for women, men, and ch i ldren under 12 years of age, respectively. Changes During 1983 Gold September 4. The Guyana Gold Board announced that it would pay local goldminers a domestic currency price wh i ch, when compared w i th the world market price of gold in foreign exchange, would imply an exchange rate of G$4.9 - US$1. The foreign exchange earned by the Gold Board from such operations would be converted by the central bank at the rate of US$1 = G$5.50. 232 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ha i ti is the Ha i t ian Gourde, the par i ty of wh ich is defined in terms of the SDR, but in such a way as to preserve the re la t ion sh ip of G 5 = US$1. The official buy ing and selling rates for the U . S. do l lar are G 5 = US$1. The U . S. do l lar c i rcu la tes free ly and is generally accepted in Ha i t i. Sales of fore ign exchange are subject to a local tax of 0.20 percen t. Commerc ial banks quote buy ing and se l l ing rates for cer ta in other currencies, based on the b u y i ng and s e l l ing rates of the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. On December 22, 1953, Ha i ti no t i f i ed the Fund that it formally accepted the ob l iga t ions of Ar t ic le V I I I, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t. Administration of Control The administration of the fore ign exchange sys tem is under the control of the Bank of the R e p u b l ic of H a i ti (the central bank) and exchange transac t ions are imp le- mented by that Bank and certain comme rc ial b ank s. The tax code provides for a p e n a l t y, payab le to the tax authorities, equal to 20 percent of any comme rc ial foreign exchange transaction not conducted th rough a bank established in H a i t i. Aside from t h is r e q u i r em e n t, there is no exchange control, and there are no ob l iga t ions prescribing the method or cu r rency for p aym en ts to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Importation of certain consumer goods is regu la ted by an order of November 3, 1982. Import l icenses are required for, inter a l i a, certain food s tu f f s, cer ta in foot- wear, cotton tex t i les, pa in ts, specified househo ld goods, and iron rods. In p r inc ip le, these products are sub ject to global quotas wh ich are d i s t r ibu ted among importers on the basis of established market shares. In p rac t ice, however, the M in i s t ry of Commerce app l ies spec i f ic quotas only when the local ma rket is perceived c lea r ly as being flooded by a pa r t icu lar imported i t em, th r e a t en ing a complete d isp lacement of local p rodu c t ion .! The importation of used au tomob i les is sub ject to the requ i re- ment that the vehicle is at most f ive years old and has been owned by the importer for a m i n i m um of two years. Imports from member coun tr ies of the Counc il for Mutual Economic Assistance require prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in is try of Commerce and I n d u s t r y. The M i n i s- try's prior authorization is also requ ired for impor ts from any source of specified types of footwear and of a few other items that are controlled for o ther th an ba lance of payments reasons. The domestic m a rk e t ing of certain imports is controlled by the State Tobacco Monopo ly. A consular fee of 2 percent is payab le on all impor ts in the 'W i th the excep t ion of m i lk and ba t te r ie s, impo rt quo t as a re not f ixed in advance for spec i f ied p roduc ts. coun t ry of or ig in except for ma ter ia ls required by certain export indus tr ies. A un i f ied and simplified system of import ta r i f fs came in to effect in May 1981. Importers pay a sales tax of 7 percent on the amount of the ir impor ts. All merchand ise sh ipmen ts to H a i ti are subject to q u a l i t a t i ve and qu an t i t a t ive ver if ica t ion by the Swiss company Societe Generale de Surve i l lance (SGS). Exports and Export Proceeds Expor tab le commod i t ies requ ire prior authorization from the Off ice de Promo t ion des Denrees Exportables. Export au tho r iza t ion is u s u a l ly granted freely but may be w i t h h e ld wh en domestic supp l ies are low. Exports of essen t ial o i ls are regu la ted by the M a rk e t ing Office for Aroma t ic O i l s. Foreign exchange proceeds from major export commod i t ies (coffee, essen t ial o i ls, meat, and other ag r i cu l tu r al goods) mu st be surrendered. Exporters are requ i red to negotiate documen tary draf ts w i th local comme rc ial banks to ensure the repatriation of the ir export proceeds, and the banks are to advise the central bank of transac t ions pe r ta in ing to the ma jor export commod i t ies. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Rece ip ts of p r iva te transfers must be surrendered th rough the cen tral b ank. Paymen ts for inv i s ib l es are not restricted. Res iden ts t r av e l ing abroad must pay a tax of G 20 on t icke ts and mu st buy a G 25,000 travel insurance po l icy by p ay ing a p r em ium of G 52; d ip loma ts and staff members of in te rna t ional organ iza t ions are exemp t. There are some arrears in respect of debt service p aym en t s. Capital Cap i tal t ran s fe rs abroad are not no rm a l ly permitted but imports may be made f r e e ly. Foreign inves tment in H a i ti is regu la ted by the decrees of March 13, 1963 and September 9, 1969 and requires prior government app rova l. Permission is not no rma l ly granted to nonresi- den ts for inve s tmen ts in hand ic ra ft indus t r ies. Under a decree of Ap r il 6, 1973, pr iva te banks operating in Ha i ti are requ i red to keep in the form of domestic assets a m i n i m um of 85 percent of the ir l i ab i l i t i es to local cus tome rs. Gold Res iden ts may hold and acqu i re gold coins in H a i ti for n um i sm a t ic purposes. W i th th is excep t ion, residents other than the monetary authorities and au thor ized i n d u s t r i al users are not a l lowed to hold or acqu ire gold in any form o ther th an j ew e l r y, at home or abroad. The Bank of the R e p u b l ic of H a i ti has the exc lus ive r ight to purchase gold dome s t ica l ly and to export gold in the form of co in, m ine ral d u s t, or bars. Impor ts and exports 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the Bank of the Republic of Haiti; exports require in addition prior authorization by the M in is try of Commerce and Indus try and the Ministry of Finance, as well as an endorsement by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry before customs clearance. However, commercial imports of articles containing a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement August 23. A law was enacted, empowering the Bank of the Repub l ic of Ha i ti (the central bank) to determine the external parity of the gourde in terms of the SDR, but in such a way as to preserve the existing relationship of G 5 - US$1. Imports and Import Payments December 1. The Swiss company Societe Generate de Surve i l lance (SGS) was entrusted w i th qualitative and quantitative verification of all merchandise shipments to H a i t i. 234 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Honduras is the Honduran Lemp ira, which is pegged to the U .S. do l lar, the in terven t ion currency, at L 2 = US$1. The o f f ic ial b u y i ng and selling rates for the U .S. dollar are L 2.00 and L 2 .02, respectively, per US$1. Bank notes in Costa R ican colones, Guatemalan quetzales, N ica raguan cordobas, and Salvadoran colones are purchased at par i ty rates w i th a 1 percent commission and are sold at parity rates. The buying and selling rates for other currencies that are of significance to the foreign trade of Honduras are f ixed daily on the basis of the buy ing and se l l ing rates of the currency concerned against the U .S. dollar in foreign markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On August 19, 1950, Honduras forma l ly no t i f ied the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, beg inn ing on Ju ly 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency There are no regulations prescribing the method of currency for payments to or from nonresidents. Pay- ments among member countries of the Central Amer ican Common Market (CACM )1 in respect of trade and invisibles are settled every six mon ths in the domestic currency of the payer through the Central American Clearing House. If the ou ts tand ing balance is in excess of US$12 m i l l ion, immediate se t t lement is requ ired. Payments to and from Colombia in respect of merchan- dise trade and invisibles are settled on a s ix -mon th basis in U .S. dollars through a reciprocal credit arrangement between the member central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Bank of the Repub l ic of Colombia. Payments to Mexico in respect of mer- chandise trade and invisibles are settled on a four- monthly basis in U .S. dollars under a s im i lar agreement between the member central banks of the Central American Clearing House and the Bank of Mexico. There are monthly quotas on the amount of lempira notes and coins that can be purchased by the cen tral banks of other CACM coun tr ies ,2 s im i lar to those imposed by these countries on the purchases of their currencies by the Central Bank of Honduras. Beg inn ing Augu st 1983, all lempira-denominated paymen ts amoun t ing to at least L 1,500 processed through the Central Amer ican Clear- ing House in respect of trade and trade-related transac- tions w i th Mexico, Colombia, and member countries of the CACM require prior au thor iza t ion from the Central Bank of Honduras. 'Costa R ica, El Sa lvador, Gu a t em a l a, and N i c a r agu a. 2Costa Rica was exempt from the quo ta. Imports and Import Payments Import permits are requ i red for all i tems and are issued by the Ex ternal F inanc ing Department of the Central B a n k. Imports are categorized according to those that mu st be paid for in cash (m a i n ly nonessen t ial imports) and those that can be f inanced w i th cred i t. The purpose of the c lass if ica t ion is to discourage the import of l u x u ry goods by deny ing them fo re ign credit and l im i t i ng the ir access to domestic credit by se t t ing por tfo l io ce i l ing s. A priority scheme for the approval of import pe rm i ts has been established on a temporary bas is, w i th the in ten t ion of fu r ther re s t ra in ing the demand for nonessential im- ports; the scheme inc ludes f ive categories w i th specified m a x im um w a i t ing periods in each case. Imports may be checked for appropriate p r ic ing; import prepaymen ts are subject to certain res tr ic t ions on the means of se t t lemen t. As a res tra int on import p repaymen t, central bank au thor iza t ion is requ ired when paymen ts for imports by bank d ra f ts exceed US$5,000. Imports from CACM member coun tr ies in excess of US$25,000 in each case are also subject to pr ior au tho r iza t ion by the Central Bank. Depending on the fore ign exchange s i t u a t i o n, the Foreign Exchange Depar tment of the Central Bank may subject the a l loca t ion of fore ign exchange for imported goods and services to a set of po l icy -de te rm ined priori- t i e s .3 A 100 percent guaran tee deposit is requ ired against all requests to open s ight letters of cred it for import paymen ts; the deposits are held w i th comme rc ial b ank s .4 Importation of corn, r ice, sorghum, beans, and pota- toes is the monopoly of the Hondu ran Ins t i tu te of Ag r icu l tu ral Ma rke t ing ( IHMA ). Under the prov is ions of the Central Amer ican Agree- ment on Fiscal In c en t iv e s, Hondu ras g ran ts du ty exoner- ations on imports of raw ma te r ia ls and cap i tal goods to approved indu s t r ial f i rm s. Most imports from coun t r ies ou ts ide the CACM are subject to customs du ty. Imports from the CACM are sub ject to customs du t ies r a n g i ng from zero to 35 percent, under b i la te ral trade agreemen t. Some goods are subject to a cus toms su r tax of 12 percent of the d u ty and to a consu lar charge of 8 percent of the f . o . b. va lue. There is a du ty - f ree zone in Puerto Cortes. 3The Cen t ral B ank is au tho r i z ed to a l loca te fo re ign ex ch ange in accordance w i th t he f o l l ow i ng p r io r i t i e s: e x t e r n al f i n a n c i al p aym en t s, essen t ial con sum er i tem s, h e a l th p r o d u c t s, e d u c a t i o n al m a t e r i a l s, f u el a nd l u b r i c a n t s, r aw m a t e r i a l s, a g r i c u l t u r al a nd i n d u s t r i al i n p u t s, m a c h i n e r y, e q u i pm e n t, and spare pa r ts, and o ther goods and services. 4Pr ior to May 1982, w h en t h is p rac t ice was i n t r o d u c e d, the r e q u i r em e nt had a l ready been put in ope ra t ion by a n um b er of local comm e r c i al b a n ks whose fo re ign co r responden ts had been r e q u i r i ng of them an e q u i v a l e nt depos it of f o r e i gn c u r r e n cy at the t ime t h at the letter of c red it was con f i rm ed. S ince local branches of fo r e ign b anks were not sub ject to the same r e q u i r em e n t, the C e n t r al B a nk decided to gene ra l ize the prac t ice in order to e q u a l i ze the po s i t ion of a ll comme rc ial b anks w i th respect to t h e ir o p p o r t u n i t i es for f i n a n c i ng fo re ign t rade. 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS Exports and Export Proceeds Any export w i th a value exceeding US$1,000 requires a license and is subject to prior au tho r iza t ion of the External F inanc ing Department of the Central B ank. All foreign exchange proceeds mu st either be surrendered to the Central Bank or to authorized banks and in s t i tu t ion s, or be held as dollar-denominated deposits w i th commer- cial banks. The w i thd rawal of do l lar-denom ina ted de- posits is subject to compliance w i th the procedures on the use of foreign exchange. In general, the surrender of export proceeds must be made w i t h in 90 days fo l low ing the negotiation of export documen ts. The Central Bank is authorized to require banks to sell to it foreign exchange ho ld ings in excess of established l im i t s. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Hondu ran Coffee Ins t i tu te (!HCAFE), and exports of bananas by the Honduran Banana Corporation (COHBANA ). Exports of corn, rice, beans, and potatoes are controlled by the Honduran Ins t i tu te of Ag r icu l tu ral Ma rke t ing ( IHMA ), and lumber exports are channeled th rough the Hondu ran Forest Development Corporation (COHDEFOR). There is an export tax on cattle, mea t, and sugar, and a general export du ty of 1 percent of the f . o . b. va lue of all other export items except bananas, coffee, ca t t le, mea t, suga r, and m inera ls. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from inv i s ib les are e i ther subject to a surrender requ irement or mu st be held as do l lar-denom i- nated deposits w i th commercial banks. All purchases of foreign exchange in excess of US$5,000 require pr ior approval of the Central Bank. For s ta t is t ical purposes, however, all buyers of foreign exchange are requ ired to file an application stating how such funds w i ll be used. W i th in this l im i t, persons t rave l ing abroad may purchase foreign currency notes and co ins in an amount not exceeding US$100 a person. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign bank notes by trave lers. Capital The au thor iza t ion of the M in i s ter of Finance and approval by the Central Bank are required for all activities invo lv ing the receipt of foreign exchange resources and the ir transfer abroad for purposes of investment in mu tual fund s, hous ing deve lopmen ts, real estate, or similar ac t iv i t ies. Foreign m u t u al funds and similar f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions requ ire permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or inves tment abroad. The approval of the M in is t ry of F inance, the Na t ional Planning Council (CONSUPLANE ), and the Central Bank is required for the pub l ic sector to contract any fore ign indebtedness, whe ther for import f i n a n c i ng or for other purposes. The con trac t ing of ex ternal debt by the pr iva te sector requires approval by the Central Bank. Ex ternal debt contracts must be registered w i th the Central B ank, 236 wh ich provides foreign exchange for the servicing of on ly d u ly registered and approved external debt. The con trac t ing of ex ternal f inanc ing must conform with spec if ied p r io r i t ies. Sight and term deposits in foreign currency at the banks are subject to a reserve requirement of 30 percen t; the reserve requ irement for certificates of deposit of US$25,000 and above is 20 percent, and 15 percent for sav ings deposits in foreign currency with sav ings and loan associations. Foreign exchange hold- ings in excess of specified limits may be required to be sold by the banks to the Central Bank. Gold Res iden ts may hold and acqu ire gold coins in Hon- du ras for num i sm a t ic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and autho- rized indu s t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than j ew e l ry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry requ ire licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on beha lf of the monetary authorities, indus t r ial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jewe lry and other articles con ta in ing gold requ ire licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted f ree ly. Exports of gold are subject to a tax of 5 percent. Changes During 1983 Prescription of Currency August 11. All lempira-denominated payments amoun t ing to at least L 1,500 processed through the Cen tral Ame r ican Clearing House in respect of trade- related t ransac t ions w i th Mex ico, Colombia, and mem- ber coun tr ies of the CACM were made subject to prior au tho r iza t ion by the Central Bank of Honduras. Imports and Import Payments July 16. In a s t ream l in ing of the priority scheme for the approval of import licenses, fixed wa i t ing periods were es tab l ished by the Cen tral Bank for the five import categories. November 10. For the period November 15, 1983 th rough March 31, 1984 a m a x im um term of five days was established for cen t ral bank authorization for self- f inanced imports from countries outside the CACM. November 21. Imports from CACM member coun- tries in excess of US$25,000 in each case were made subject to pr ior au tho r iza t ion by the Central Bank. Capital November 10. A regu la t ion was introduced requiring commercial banks to surrender to the central bank on a da i ly basis 30 percent of the ir previous day 's foreign exchange pu rchases. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG1 (Position on December 31, 1983} Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hong Kong is the Hong Kong Dollar. The authorities do not ma in ta in ma rg ins in respect of exchange transactions. Starting on October 17, 1983 certificates of indebtedness denom ina ted in Hong Kong dollars and issued by the Government Exchange Fund, which the two no te- issu ing commercial banks are re- quired to hold as back ing for the ir Hong Kong dollar note issues, are issued only against payment of U .S. dollars at a fixed exchange rate of HK$7.80 - US$1; payments by the Exchange Fund on surrender of certifi- cates of indebtedness to it when the note issue declines are also made in U .S. dollars at the same exchange rate. By arrangement, other licensed banks also pay or receive U .S. dollars at th is same rate when they draw bank notes from or surrender them to the note-issuing banks. W i th these exceptions, the exchange rate for the Hong Kong dollar is freely determined by supp ly and demand in the foreign exchange marke t, though in f luenced by the f ixed rate which applies to note-issue transac t ions. The au thor- ities do, however, retain a capab i l i ty to in te rvene in the market. On December 31, 1983 the m idd le rate in the interbank foreign exchange market for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, was HK$7 .78 = US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control There is no exchange con tro l. Import and export licensing is carried out ma in ly by the Director of Trade. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requ i remen ts are in force. Settlements between residents of Hong Kong and non- residents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonres i- dent accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free from l icens ing con tro l, except for certain dutiable commodities, items controlled for health, safe ty, or security reasons, and tex t i les that are subject to licensing control for su rve i l lance reasons. Imports of rice are subject to a quota system operated by the Department of Trade. W i th a few excep t ions, a trade declaration must be lodged w i th the Customs and Excise Department w i th in 14 days of importation in respect of each consignment of goods imported to or exported from 'Hong Kong is a nonme t ropo l i tan terr i tory in respect of w h i ch the United K ingdom has accepted the F u n d 's A r t ic les of Ag reemen t. Hong Kong. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely, at any t ime, and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for a small number of items to enable Hong Kong to f u l f i ll its international obligations and for hea l th, sa fe ty, or security reasons. Textiles are also subject to l icens ing control because of a number of bilateral arrangements w i th specified coun- tries under wh ich the export of certain textiles is restricted. Export proceeds may be collected at any time and in any currency. They need not be repatriated or surrendered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no l im i t a t ions on paymen ts for or receipts from inv i s ib l e s. Res ident and nonres ident travelers may free ly br ing in and take out any amount in domestic or foreign bankno tes, trave ler's checks, and other means of paymen t. Capital No exchange control requ iremen ts are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. A license is requ ired before any company, whe ther incorporated in Hong Kong or elsewhere, can do bank ing bus iness in Hong Kong. Subject to certain cond i t ions, an overseas bank can establish a represen- ta t ive office in Hong Kong and may also register a subs id ia ry as a deposit-taking company. A deposit- tak ing company may not, however, conduct banking business or use the word "bank" in its t i t le. Gold There is a free market for gold in wh ich dealings by residents and nonresidents are unres tr ic ted. Imports and exports of gold in any form ( i n c l u d i ng f in ished jewe l ry) are freely perm i t ted and do not require licenses. Resi- dents may hold gold in any form in Hong Kong or abroad. A gold coin of HK$ 1,000 is legal tender but does not c i rcu la te. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement October 17. An arrangement was introduced under which Hong Kong dollar bank notes would be issued and redeemed on ly against payment in U . S. dollars at the f ixed rate of HK$7.80 = US $ 1. P rev ious ly, payments in respect of cer t if ica tes of indebtedness had been made in Hong Kong do l lars. Capital October 17. Interest earn ings on Hong Kong dollar deposits w i th f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions were exempted from the interest w i thho ld ing t ax, hitherto levied at a rate of 10 percent. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Hungary is the Hungarian Forint. The exchange rate of the forint against currencies other than those of the member countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA ) ,! A lban ia, and the Dem- ocratic People's Republic of Korea, is derived on the basis of a weighted basket of nine currencies;2 the weights are adjusted annua l ly and reflect the currency composition of Hunga ry 's export receipts from the nonruble currency area. The value of the forint in terms of the basket is adjusted at irregular intervals, on the basis notably of the difference between the domestic and foreign rates of inf la t ion. Exchange rates are quoted by the National Bank of Hungary for 19 convertible currencies3 and the National Bank stands ready to effect transactions in any of these currencies. Buy ing and selling rates are set w i th a spread of V\o of 1 percent around the middle rate for each currency.4 New rates are quoted once a week (on Tuesday) and, in the case of the currencies included in the basket, are based on the average exchange rates between these currencies in international markets during the previous five working days. Rates for other curren- cies are based on the quoted rate for the U .S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in interna- tional markets. The exchange rate of the forint against individual currencies need not be changed if the ad jus t- ment relative to the previous quotation would be less than !/2 of 1 percent and if cumu la t ive changes in the value of the forint relative to the basket would not exceed 1 percent during the calendar year. The buy ing and selling rates for spot transactions in U .S. dollars on December 31, 1983 were Ft 45.1482 and Ft 45.2386, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Although there are no official forward quotations, the National Bank is prepared to buy currencies forward for exports and related transactions. Rates are set on a case- by-case basis and reflect forward quotations in interna- tional markets. The largest portion of Hunga ry 's trade and f inanc ial 'The member countries of the CMEA are Bu lga r ia, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, German Democratic Repub l ic, Hung a ry, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, U . S . S .R ., and V iet N am. 2Austrian schillings, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian l ire, Netherlands guilders, pounds s ter l ing, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, and U .S. dollars. Each of these currencies accounts for at least 1 per- cent of export receipts. 3Australian do l lars, Aus tr ian sch i l l ing s, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, F inn ish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese y en, K uw a i ti d ina rs, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, Norwegian kroner, pounds s te r l ing, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U .S. do l lars. In add i t ion to the above, exchange rates for bank notes and t rave le r 's checks are quoted for Greek drachmas, and Yugos lav d inars. 4The spread of 0.2 percent between b u y i ng and selling rates applies to spot telegraphic transactions. For traveler's checks and bank notes, a 6 percent spread is ma in ta ined between b u y i ng and se l l ing rates. 238 settlments w i th the member countries of the CMEA is settled in transferable rubles through the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC) and w i th Al- bania and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in clearing rubles. Official exchange rates for the transfer- able ruble and the clearing ruble are, in principle, quoted weekly by the Na t ional Bank, although these rates remain fixed for longer periods. At the end of December 1983 the buy ing and selling rates for the forint against the transferable ruble were Ft 25.974 and Ft 26.026, respectively; the same rates applied to the clearing ruble. The Na t ional Bank also quotes rates of exchange for the forint against the currencies of member countries of the CMEA, A lban ia, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. These rates are used for noncommercial settlements, for examp le, international travel, expenses of diplomatic representation, scholarships,5 and are based on mu l t i la teral agreements or, in some cases, on supplemental bilateral agreements. Administration of Control The authority for enforcement of foreign exchange regulations is vested in the Minister of Finance. Related func t ions are exercised by the Minister through the Na t ional Bank, except for those func t ions reserved for the Minister himself or delegated to other institutions, such as the Hunga r ian Foreign Trade Bank and the Central Corporation of Bank ing Companies. The Na- tional Bank may entrust other agencies, such as banking ins t i tu t ions and travel agencies, w i th the performance of specified tasks. The Central European International Bank L td ., established jo in t ly by the National Bank and Western European and Japanese interests, is exempt from Hungar ian foreign exchange regulations and re- strictions in respect of authorized activities. Foreign trade is a state monopoly. In practice, this means that commercial exports and imports may be effected only by economic enterprises authorized for this purpose. Organizations that are not authorized to con- duct foreign trade channel their imports and exports through authorized organizations. At the end of Decem- ber 1983 there were 211 enterprises authorized to engage in foreign trade, of wh ich 39 were specialized foreign trade organizations;6 the rest consisted of industrial enterprises, state fa rms, cooperatives, and domestic trading concerns. Authorization to enter foreign trade may be either general or specific, referring in the latter case to the Import and export activities of a producing enterprise for own account or to a single transaction or contract. 5A comm iss ion of 3 percent applies to purchases from tourists of bank notes in the currencies of member countries of the CMEA, A l b a n i a, and Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea. 6In add i t ion, there were n ine enterprises specializing in the represen- ta t ion of fore ign en terpr ises. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries w i th wh ich Hungary has multilateral and bilateral paymen ts agreements are made in the currencies and in accordance w i th the procedures set forth in those agreements.7 If there are no specific agreements, or if trade takes place outside the scope of the agreements, settlement is made in a convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident jur id ical and physical persons may ma in- tain convertible currency accounts at the Na t ional Bank, at certain designated offices of the Na t ional Savings Bank, and at the Foreign Trade Bank; on ly relatively large amounts may be placed at the Na t ional Bank. The accounts carry tax-free interest, payable in the currency of deposit, and have a guarantee of repayment but no exchange rate guarantee. Nonresident deposits at the National Bank earn rates of interest set on a competitive basis with those in international marke ts. Interest rates on nonresident deposits at the Na t ional Savings Bank at the end of December 1983 ranged from 2.75 percent to 18.25 percent a year, depending on the currency and the maturity of the deposit and reflecting the f inanc ial market situation. No authorization is required to open such accounts or to draw on them. Unless specifically exempted, payments in forints to nonresidents must be deposited in blocked for int ac- counts at certain designated offices of the Na t ional Savings Bank. Approval authority for w i thd rawa ls from blocked forint accounts has been delegated to the National Savings Bank for specified uses, for example, living expenses while trave l ing in Hunga ry, medical expenses, and certain personal and family-related ex- penses; approval may be obtained on the basis of a verbal declaration. Requests for approval for other uses must be referred to the National Bank. All requests for rea- sonable purposes are granted. In general, no interest is paid on these accounts. Residents may also open accounts at designated offices of the National Savings Bank either in foreign currencies or in forint convertible into foreign curren- cies. Foreign exchange earned from creative, inven t ive, or artistic activity (including the royalties of authors, 7At the end of December 1983 Hunga ry had b i la te ral paymen ts agreements w i th A lb an i a, B r a z i l, the People's Repub l ic of C h i n a, Colombia, Ecuador, F in land, Is lam ic R epub l ic of I ran, M a l i, Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic R e p u b l i c, and Viet Nam. Hungary also had trade agreements w i th b i la teral payments features for certain commodities w i th A f g h a n i s t a n, Bang la- desh, and Pak is tan. Except for A l b a n i a, People's R epub l ic of Ch in a, Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Republic, and Viet N am, settlements under bilateral agreements were in clearing U .S. dollars. Settlements w i th the People's R epub l ic of China were in clearing Sw iss f rancs, and w i th A l b a n i a, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic R epub l i c, and Viet Nam in clearing rubles. The agreement w i th Ma li has been inoperative. The agreement w i th Braz il was mod i f ied w i th e f fect from January 1, 1984 to provide for the se t t lement of t ransac t ions w i t h in 90 days and for the payment of market rates of in terest on ou t s t and ing balances; balances ou ts tand ing under the agreement as of Decem- ber 31, 1983 were required to be settled on the basis of the former terms of the agreement. HUNGARY composers, and perform ing artists), honoraria, prizes and awards, and specified fees may be deposited in these accounts. Convertible currency income or assets from these sources may be deposited in these accounts up to the extent of the first Ft 15,000 and 25 percent of the excess a year (in the case of inventors, up to 30 percent of the fees from foreign sales of licenses and products under licenses). No l im i ts apply to income from these sources earned in the currencies of countries accounting in rubles. In add i t ion, reasonable amounts of savings from per diem paymen ts, wages and salaries derived from employment abroad, scholarships, and artistic performances may be deposited in these accounts. Separate accounts are kept for deposits made in convert- ible and CMEA currencies. No au thor iza t ion is required for the use of accounts of residents in foreign currencies or in forint convertible into foreign currencies. Withdrawals of convertible currency balances can be made in any convertible or CMEA currency, in Yugoslav d inars, or in for in t. CMEA balances can on ly be w i thd rawn in a CMEA currency or in fo r in t. The deposits may be used for foreign travel or to purchase foreign goods through the Consumex and the Intertourist shops or directly from abroad against payment in convertible currencies. De- posits of more than one-year ma tur i ty earn interest at rates preva i l ing on international markets. Residents can also hold another category of accounts called the BC foreign currency accounts. Deposits in these accounts are limited to transfers from nonresidents to residents for the purpose of f inanc ing residents' expenses wh i le traveling abroad. Such deposits can be used in l ieu of a nonresident's a f f idav it in applying for a v is i tor's travel visa (see below). Imports and Exports All imports and exports are subject to a licensing requ iremen t. Licenses are issued by the Licensing Department of the M in is try of Foreign Trade. No further license from the foreign exchange authority is required for export or import and the performance or use of related services. Import licenses may be global or individual and, un less otherwise specified, are valid un t il the end of the calendar year for wh ich they are issued. Global licenses allow the transaction to take place w i th any country for the goods and services specified in the license; such licenses are used p r ima r i ly for bu lk imports of items, such as fertilizer and steel products, wh ich are spread over the course of the year. Ind iv idual licenses permit transactions to take place only as specified. A fee equ iva lent to 2 percent8 of the for int value of licensed imports settled in convertible currency is levied. Imports are subject to import duties and related customs levies upon customs clearance. An advance import deposit scheme introduced in 1967 remains in place but has not been activated since 1971. 8On February 7, 1984 the 2 percent fee on licensed imports settled in conve r t ib le cu r rency was reduced to I percent. 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY Separately, a forint cover requirement applies to both imports and investment f inanc ing. In the case of imports, the importer is required to deposit the forint equ iva lent of the value of the letter of credit in a blocked noninterest- bearing account at the National Bank when opening a letter of credit. When importing on behalf of other end- users, foreign trade organizations must obtain payment from the end-user 15 days before the due date for payment by the latter. The due date for payment can relate either to the date when a letter of credit is to be opened or for imports against documents or acceptance, to the date of paymen t. In the case of inves tment f inanc ing, a letter from the Na t ional Bank confirming that f inanc ing for the project has been secured in fu ll is required before spending can be in i t ia ted. The related financing is frozen in a noninterest-bearing account at the time the letter is issued by the National Bank. In the case of imported capital goods, the letter must be submitted to the licensing authority before the import license is issued. Before September 1983, apart from the import of consumer goods settled in convertible currencies, the licensing of imports was quasi-automatic and was used essentially for the purpose of ensuring that only autho- rized enterprises engaged in international trade. Begin- ning in September 1982, imports of several, ma in ly primary products were made subject to quo tas ,9 and imports of component parts became subject to a 20 per- cent surcharge.10 In addition, the regime for imports settled in the convertible currencies has been applied more restrictively: imports of capital goods, other im- ports by large and frequent importers in excess of specified quarterly l im i t s11 and all imports by other importers are subject to ind iv idual approval on the basis of the availability of foreign exchange. Imports of consumer goods settled in convertible currencies are subject to a global quota, the dollar value of wh ich is published annua l ly in the Foreign Trade Gazette. The value of the quota for 1984 was set at US$100 m i l l ion. Licenses against the quota are granted on an order-of- arrival basis, and unused allocations are not auto- matically added to the quota for the next year. Licenses are generally applied for by the enterprises authorized to engage in foreign trade. Settlement in foreign exchange is authorized and effected upon receipt, and according to the terms, of valid documents for settlement. Ex post verification of compliance w i th the terms of the license is made by the foreign exchange authority twice a year. Certain imports are prohibited for sanitary, security, and other non- economic reasons. 9The coverage of these quota restrictions was reduced in va lue terms by 20 percent on Janua ry 1, 1983 and by a fu r ther 25 percent on January 1, 1984. 10The 20 percent surcharge on imports of component parts was abolished on April 1, 1984. 1 ' In 1983, specified l im i t s, in excess of wh i ch licenses were sub ject to ind iv idual approval, ranged from 80 percent to 120 percent of 1981 imports (in fo r in t ), averaging 98.3 percent for all q u a l i f y i ng importers. For 1984, l im i ts have been set for the first six mon ths of the year rather than on a quarterly basis as in 1983. 240 Hunga ry has been a member of the GATT since 1973. As part of the Mu l t i la te ral Trade Negotiations (MTN), the arithmetic average ta r i ff level applied on a most- favored-nation basis is to be reduced from 24.9 percent in 1979 to 16.1 percent in 1987; the weighted average ta r i ff level is also show ing a decreasing trend, to 10.9 percent in 1982. Imports from developing countries enjoy preferen t ial tar iff treatment. Du ty concessions or exemp t ions may be granted in specified cases. Exemp- tions from cus toms du t ies apply to imports from member countries of the CMEA, A lban ia, and the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, except for imports effected outside the framework of the annual bilateral trade agreements w i th these countries. A part of these imports, however, is subject to special import turnover taxes aimed at equa l iz ing the prices of such imports and prices in the domestic marke t. In general, re turn ing Hunga r ian travelers may import, free of customs d u t y, goods for noncommercial use up to a va lue of Ft 5,000. Re tu rn ing residents may import, free of customs du ty, goods up to a value equivalent to 40 percent of their earnings wh i le stationed abroad for more than one year. Border trade is conducted on the basis of intergovernmental agreements. Certain ex- ports are prohibited for san i tary, security, and other noneconomic reasons. Indirect taxes on exports settled in convertible currencies are refunded at a rate equivalent to 5 pe rcen t12 of va lue. In add i t ion, an export subsidy applies to exports of agr icu l tural products and processed foods settled in convertible currencies, amoun t ing to not more than 8 percent of the va lue of the agricultural raw material content of these exports. The tax refund and the subs idy are calculated on the basis of the customs invoice va lue. Most trade w i th member countries of the CMEA, A lban ia, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, is conducted under bilateral agreements negoti- ated annu a l ly w i th in the framework of five-year bilateral trade and paymen ts agreements. Trade w i th in this frame- work takes place at prices fixed in the annual bilateral agreements, on the basis of quotas representing delivery ob l iga t ions, w i th determined conditions of delivery. Subsidies may be paid to compensate exporting enter- prises for losses incurred if such exports are required for the f u l f i l lm e nt of the agreements' obligations. All foreign assets and currencies must be declared and all foreign exchange assets must be surrendered, unless otherwise exempted. Declaration must be made within eight days, but the length of time allowed for repatriation depends on the na ture of the case. The Foreign Trade Bank is generally exempt from the obligation to surren- der its foreign exchange assets to the National Bank. The Na t ional Savings Bank and the General Banking and Trust Company are exempt from the surrender require- ment in certain cases; specific exemptions for individuals l 2B e g i n n i ng February 7, 1984 ind irect taxes on exports settled in conve r t ib le cu r rency are re funded at a rate equ iva lent to 2 percent of v a l u e. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are granted in respect of gifts received wh i le trave l ing and used to cover living and shopping expenses wh i le abroad, as well as for wages and salaries earned wh i le working abroad w i th official permission, or from schol- arships received from nonresidents. Receipts of foreign currency not exceeding Ft 2,000 (in bank notes only) a person are also generally exempted from the surrender requirement. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise trans- actions, including transportation and advertising, are freely granted. Generally, other inv is ib le transactions exceeding Ft 5,000 require general or ind iv idual authori- zation by either the Ministry of Finance or other competent authority. Foreign exchange for related pay- ments is made available automatically once the transac- tion has been authorized. Budgetary or social ins t i tu t ions may obtain general authorizations for transactions up to specified amoun ts in connection w i th their own activities. General authoriza- tion up to specified amounts or proportions of turnover is given to enterprises engaging in foreign economic activities for the purpose of de f ray ing expenses other than those directly related to trade. Such authorizations relate to expenses for travel and other expenses, such as the maintenance of foreign representation and related personnel expenses. Compliance with the conditions of the general authorizations is reviewed on an ex post basis by the Ministry of Finance, the chief control administra- tion of the Ministry of Finance, and the Na t ional Bank. Permission for travel to countries outside the CMEA area is granted only upon evidence of means of support abroad. This requirement can be met in one of three ways: (1) if living expenses wh i le abroad are covered by nonresidents, in which case an affidavit from the nonresident or the ava i lab i l i ty of su f f ic ient funds in a resident BC account at Touring, Money Chang ing, Traveling and Shipping Co., Inc. (IBUSZ) is required; (2) if living expenses while abroad are covered from the resident's own funds in a convertible currency account or from a travel allowance obtained from the Na t ional Bank; or (3) if traveling w i th an authorized tour ist group. Travelers under the first category are labeled "visitors," while travelers under the latter two categories are labeled "tourists." Permission for private travel may be obtained once a calendar year. Authorized tourist offices obtain annual foreign exchange allocations for gran t ing allow- ances to tourist groups. Foreign exchange allowances for travel to countries outside the CMEA may be obtained from the Na t ional Bank once every third year. Ind iv idual allowances amount to Ft 14,000 a passport holder p lus Ft 2,200 a child for children of less than 14 years of age traveling under a parent's passport.13 Small amounts may also be granted on a case-by-case basis in excess of the basic l3Beginning February 7, 1984 the travel allowance for an adult passport holder and an accompany ing t rave ler und er 14 years of age has been raised to Ft 14,500 and Ft 2,300, re spec t ive ly. HUNGARY allowance for personal reasons, for example, if certain additional transport must be paid for abroad. In general, transportation expenses for "tourists" can be settled in for int for Hunga r ian carriers or carriers participating in a pooling agreement of wh ich the domestic carrier is a member, or carriers which are part of the CMEA agreement. The same regulations apply to visitors when trave l ing by air or long distance coach. In the case of tourists, a supplementary travel allowance may be obtained for travel by car to cover gasoline expenses up to a quota f ixed for each coun try. Visitors may purchase foreign currencies up to Ft 1,800.14 For off ic ial and business trave l, separate allowances are established by the M in is try of Finance for l iv ing expenses and accommodation. L im i ts for l iv ing ex- penses are applied s tr ic t ly, wh i le accommodation allow- ances are applied more f lex ib ly to reflect actual rea- sonable costs. Compliance w i th these l im i ts is admin- istered by the enterprises or ins t i tu t ions themselves w i th in their allocated global foreign exchange quotas and is reviewed, on an ex post basis, by the M in is try of Finance, the chief control administration of the Ministry of Finance, and the National Bank. No m i n im um spending or conversion requirement applies to nonresident travelers to Hunga ry, except in the case of visitors from Yugos lav ia, who are required to convert the equ iva lent of Ft 760 a trip (Ft 380 for residents of the border area) when entering Hungary other than for bus iness purposes. (Yugos lav citizens arriving w i th an authorized tourist group are, however, not covered by this regulation.) For travel between Hunga ry and Poland and between Hungary and Czecho- slovakia travelers are required to have in their possession specific m in imum amounts of the currency of their country of des t ina t ion. Nonresidents may take out of the country foreign exchange assets and economic assets, in addition to their personal effec ts, w i thout a license of the foreign exchange au thor i ty, provided that they have f i l led out a "Certified Declaration on Brough t-In Assets" on arr iva l. In add i t ion, nonresidents may not take out of the country articles exceeding the value of Ft 3,000! 5 (up to Ft 1,000 an article). W i th in the same overall limits, nonresidents from countries with wh ich an agreement is in force for the reciprocal exchange of currencies (CMEA members, except Cuba and Viet Nam) may take out of the coun try g i f ts up to Ft 300 (see footnote 15) a person as well as purchased articles up to 50 percent of the amount brought into Hungary under the certification of the nonres iden t's foreign exchange au tho r i ty. How- ever, nonresidents may take out freely articles bought in shops designated for sales in convertible currencies. Residents may, w i thout a license from the foreign exchange au tho r i ty, bring into or take out of the country domestic currency in an amount not exceeding Ft 200 a person, in denom ina t ions not exceeding Ft 50. Nonresi- dents may s im i la r ly bring into or take out of the country 1 4B e g i n n i ng February 7, 1984 v is i to rs are permitted to purchase foreign currencies up to the equ iva lent of Ft 2,100. 1 5In border t r a f f i c, the v a lue may not exceed Ft 200 a mon th un less o the rw ise au tho r ized under in te rna t ional agreemen t. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HUNGARY Ft 100 a person, in coins on ly. L im i ts of Ft 50 a person (only in coins in the case of nonresidents) apply to both residents and nonres iden ts, not to exceed Ft 200 a mon th, in the case of border-zone t r a f f i c. Special exchange regu la t ions apply to travel to CMEA countries as follows: residents v i s i t ing CMEA countries are entitled to an annual allowance of Ft 15,000. Except for a portion of the travel allowance (equ iva lent to the above-mentioned Ft 200) that may be taken out of the country in fo r int and converted at the travel des t ina t ion, under mu l t i la teral agreement travelers to CMEA coun- tries can acquire the currency of the coun t ry of destina- tion in amounts determined by the regulations of that coun try. For the remainder of the ir allowances travelers must acquire traveler's checks denominated in the currency of the coun try of des t ina t ion. All conversions are effected at the rate of exchange quoted by the Na t ional Bank for the relevant currency. A 4.5 percent commission is applied at the t ime of conversion. By mu l t i la te ral agreement, no reconversion of fo r int acquired by CMEA tour is ts into the ir own na t ional currency is a l lowed. Tourists from the convertible currency area can reconvert up to the equ iva lent of US$100, provided that the reconversion is for not more than half of the amount o r ig ina l ly converted into fo r in t. No foreign exchange is made ava i lab le for study abroad. S tuden ts' l iv ing expenses and tu i t ion fees wh i le abroad must be covered by scholarships or f inanc ial support from nonres ident re la t ives. Transfers abroad by nonresident workers in Hung a ry, other than those em- ployed in jo int ven tures, are determined on the basis of agreements between domestic and foreign in s t i tu t ions or enterprises. Nonresident employees of jo int ventures may transfer abroad up to 50 percent of the ir income. Twen ty percent of wages earned by Hunga r ian private citizens work ing abroad must be transferred to Hunga ry and converted into fo r in t. Capital All foreign borrowing, exc lud ing foreign borrowing on the basis of intergovernmental agreements, requires the approval of the Na t ional Bank. This approval is given only in exceptional c ircums tances, for examp le, when credits on favorable terms are guaranteed by the government of the exporter or wh en bankers' accept- ances are provided on favorable terms. The requ iremen ts of the economy for foreign credit are met through direct foreign borrowing by the Na t ional Bank; the aim is to prevent Hunga r ian enterprises from c i rcumven t ing the regulations of domestic credit policy by means of foreign resources. Directives for ex tend ing short-term commercial cred- its in connection w i th foreign trade ac t iv i t ies have been established j o i n t ly by the M in is ter of Finance, the Minister of Foreign Trade, and the President of the Na t ional Bank. No license from the foreign exchange authority is required for commercial credits in com- pliance w i th the directives. Med ium- term and long-term credits for the export of inves tment goods may be extended by exporting enterprises w i th the au thor iza t ion 242 of the M in is ter of Foreign Trade. Negotiable export documents are discounted by the National Bank. These credits are refinanced by the National Bank from its own resources. Foreign investment in the form of jo int ventures w i th Hunga r ian enterprises may be established subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance. Joint ventures may also be established in du ty-free zones. In both cases the jo int ven ture is considered as a Hungarian legal en t i ty, but those in duty-free zones are not subject to several regu la t ions. Foreign participation is limited in general to 49 percent; but a higher proportion may be allowed in the bank ing and service sectors. In other sectors, foreign ma jor i ty requires special permission of the Minister of Finance. Machines and equ ipmen t, technical know-how, and patents may qua l i fy as part of foreign investment. Tax benefits may be granted by the Minister of Finance. Guarantee is given for the transfer of the foreign investors' share of profits or, in the case of liquidation of the jo int ven tu re, of the invested capital. In addition, a guarantee may be obtained from the National Bank, covering losses on invested assets as a result of state measures, or from Hunga r ian bank ing ins t i tu t ions, cov- ering the f u l f i l lm e nt of obligations of the Hungarian partner. Foreign investment by resident economic organiza- t ions, either by es tab l ish ing subsidiaries or affiliates or by acqu ir ing an interest in a foreign enterprise, is subject to the approval of the head of the competent sectoral au tho r i ty. In add i t ion, approval is required from the Minister of Finance in his capacity as the foreign exchange authority. Except for g i f ts w i th a market value of up to Ft 400, the transfer of economic assets abroad by residents is subject to l icens ing administered by the National Bank. G if ts (movab le property) from nonresidents in excess of Ft 10,000 a person are also subject to licensing. Nonresi- dents are not generally allowed to acquire real estate, bu i ld ing s, or other immovable property in Hungary, except in the form of inheritance. Outward capital transfers by resident physical persons are not generally approved. For certain established categories, such as inheritances, transfers may be autho- rized on the basis of agreements and reciprocity with other coun tr ies, subject to the control of the Central Corporation of Bank ing Companies. Emigrants may take out of the country up to Ft 60,000 an adu lt and Ft 30,000 a ch i ld, silver objects weighing at most 1 k i logram, and gold and jewelry considered to be personal effec ts. Other assets of emigrants, as well as the assets of nonresidents, are held either in the care of a person designated by the nonresident owner or, in the case of f inanc ial assets, in a nonresident blocked forint account or blocked deposit. Gold All trade in gold and gold objects is subject to the au thor i ty of the Na t ional Bank and in concurrence with the competent au thor i ty in the case of industrial and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution artistic uses. All ingots and gold coins, except for one piece a person of every kind of gold coin minted prior to 1945, must be offered to the National Bank for sale. Except for transactions w i th enterprises specifically authorized to transact in gold, all transactions in gold are subject to licensing administered by the Na t ional Bank. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement The forint was depreciated on four occasions du r ing the year against its basket of currencies: by 1 percent on March 1, 3 percent on April 8, 1 percent on June 7, and 3 percent on Ju ly 12. Imports and Exports January 1. With the exception of imports of capital goods, an exemption from the requirement for approval of licenses was granted to large and frequent importers, up to specified quarterly l im i ts. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts January 1. Interest rates on deposits of more than one-year maturity in residents' accounts in either foreign currencies or forint convertible into foreign currencies were raised to rates prevailing on international markets. HUNGARY April 12. Au thor iza t ion was granted for inventors, w i thout any other l im i ta t ions, to make foreign exchange deposits up to 30 percent of fees earned from foreign sales of their licenses or sales of products under their licenses. Payments for Invisibles April 8. Foreign exchange allowance for travel to destinations outside the CMEA countries was raised to the equ iva lent of Ft 13,600 a passport holder and Ft 2,100 a ch i ld. May 4. In an amendment of regulations on working abroad by private c i t izens, authority for the approval of such employment was decentralized by delegating the power of authorization to county councils in the case of counc i l-run enterprises, cooperative members and em- ployees, and artisans and pensioners. Wages earned abroad under such employment were made subject to a 20 percent repatriation and conversion requirement. July 72. Foreign exchange allowance for travel to destinations outside the CMEA countries was raised to the equ iva lent of Ft 14,000 a passport holder and Ft 2,200 a ch i ld. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic K r o n a .l There is no organized foreign exchange market in Iceland and official buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, the principal trading and reserve currency, are quoted by the Central Bank of Iceland. These rates are adjusted from time to time; on December 30, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates were ISK 28.63 and ISK 28 .71, respec- tively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies2 are based on the official rates for the U .S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in international mar- kets. The authorized banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Iceland formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2 , 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement, as from September 19, 1983. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce, after consulting w i th the Central Bank, has the ultimate responsibility for matters concerning import and export regulations and payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and of exchange control, including capital controls; it is also responsible for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents from commercial transactions is surrendered to authorized banks and that such foreign exchange is disposed of as authorized. Three commercial banks (the National Bank of Iceland, the Fisheries Bank of Iceland, and the Agricultural Bank of Iceland) are the only fu l ly authorized banks. Private banks and some savings banks have been granted limited rights to deal in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency All exchange receipts are obtained in convertible currencies. Settlements (a) w i th countries whose curren- cies are usually tied to the U .S. dollar and (b) w i th many other countries, such as in Eastern and Southern Europe, as well as outside Europe, are made in U .S. dollars; w i th countries of the former Sterling Area and some other countries, in sterling; and w i th many other countries, in their respective currencies. 'On January 1, 1981 a new monetary u n i t, called the k rona, was established, equ iva lent to 100 old kronur. Bank notes and coins in old kronur continued to be legal tender un t il June 30, 1981, and the Central Bank of Iceland exchanged new currency for old un t il the end of 1982. 2Austrian sch i l l ings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Dan ish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French f rancs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 244 Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident krona ac- counts w i th the authorized banks: Foreign Accounts and Special Accoun ts. The opening of nonresident accounts requires ind iv idual approval. Foreign Accoun ts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of foreign currency to authorized banks and w i th authorized paymen ts due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used freely for paymen ts to residents and may, without a license, be converted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are, in practice, seldom used, paymen ts for international trans- actions generally being made in U .S. dollars, sterling, or other convertible currencies.3 Special Accounts in krona or foreign currency may be opened by agreement w i th an authorized bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely with approved payments from residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not on the restricted list may be imported freely w i thout an import license from any country; most imports are l ibera l ized. The main commodities on the restricted list are petroleum products, fishing vessels, certain ag r icu l tu ral goods, and specified industrial brooms and brushes. Certain imports, including fertiliz- ers, tobacco, matches, and alcoholic beverages, can be ordered freely but admitted on ly under state-trading arrangements. Fresh vegetables and potatoes are im- ported under the auspices of the Agricultural Production Board. For imports from all sources, when requiring a license, a fee of 1 percent is charged as a license fee on the krona va lue of the import license when the license is issued; for petroleum products, however, this fee is 0.1 percent. Importers of goods not requiring licenses are not required to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment from abroad, but import documentation must be presented to one of the authorized banks to obtain foreign exchange. The goods w i ll not be cleared by the customs un less payment has already been made, or the importer has acquired a permitted foreign credit, usually by accepting a b i ll of exchange issued by the seller. For imports that require an ind iv idual license, foreign ex- change is granted in accordance w i th the terms stipulated in the license. 3Re s iden ts who hold foreign currency wh ich they are not required to sell to au thor ized dealers may open Foreign Accounts w i th Icelandic banks. Such accoun ts, denom ina ted in Danish kroner, deutsche mark, pounds s te r l ing, and U .S. do l lars, may be credited w i th authorized receipts in fore ign currenc ies and may be debited for authorized paymen ts in fore ign currencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Importers may freely accept suppliers' credits for up to 3 months from the date of arrival at an Icelandic port for listed goods corresponding to around two thirds of imports; the goods not listed are ma in ly certain bu i ld ing materials, household appliances, motor vehicles for personal use, and nonessential goods. Credit in excess of 3 months and not exceeding 12 months is permitted in respect of some categories of goods and materials, for example, in connection with the import of industrial raw materials for which the production process is leng thy. Foreign credit in excess of 12 months is subject to government authorization issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce. Import documentation on credit terms must be presented to one of the authorized banks prior to customs clearance. Automobiles are subject to a special import tax ranging between 7 percent and 37 percent depending on the weight of the vehicle or the engine capacity. Buses, heavy trucks, ambulances, and pub l ic service vehicles are exempt. Certain nonessential goods, whether im- ported or of domestic origin, are subject to a special excise tax of 24 percent or 30 percent, ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government payments (such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the foreign service, payments to international organizations, payments for postal, tele- graphic, and telephone services), for bank ing com- missions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange transactions. The authorized banks effect payments freely on most transactions on the basis of bona fide documents. There is an exchange license fee of 1 percent for all payments for invisibles. The basic allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$1,350 a person for each trip abroad (US$675 for each child). Applications for foreign ex- change for chartering of ships, aircraft, and major repair of same, transactions and transfers in connection w i th direct insurance, and insurance operations abroad are considered on their merits. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out ISK 2,100 in Icelandic bank notes and coin in denomina- tions not exceeding ISK 100. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of fisheries and agricultural products require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce. The shipping documents must be lodged w i th an authorized bank. Exchange receipts accruing from exports must be surrendered without undue delay. Most f ish products are subject to export levies, which are returned to the f ish ing industry through special funds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles of a commercial nature must be surrendered. The owners of Icelandic ships and aircraft are permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts from fre igh t, passenger tickets, or ICELAND other charges and to use them for operating purposes and for purchases of necessities. Icelandic insurance compa- nies which reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned from prem iums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance p rem iums, claims, and other regular expenditures. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in Icelandic bank notes and co in, up to ISK 2,100 in de- nominations not exceeding ISK 100. Capital All investments by nonresidents are subject to indi- v idual approval. The participation by nonresidents in Iceland's jo int stock companies may in general not exceed 49 percent and is not allowed in the f ish ing, power, and m in ing industries; the case of the a lum inum p lan t, wh ich is who l ly owned by nonresidents, is a special exception. Nonresident-owned foreign capital entering in the form of foreign exchange mu st be surrendered. Nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for these f u n d s, in wh ich case their retransfer abroad is permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender foreign exchange accruing to them on account of capital transactions and paymen ts. W i thout the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, inc lud ing loans for f inanc ing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on the ir merits. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require indi- v idual approval. Direct inves tment abroad for the pur- pose of assisting the marke t ing of Icelandic products is normally permitted. Portfolio investment abroad by residents is subject to license. Outward transfers of inheritances, legacies, and em igran ts' assets are subject to license and are allowed up to an annual ceiling. Nonresidents may acqu ire Icelandic securities and other assets w i th imported fund s; the transfer abroad of the proceeds from their sale requires authorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be registered w i th the Foreign Exchange Control of the Central B ank, and all transactions concerning them are subject to licensing. The import and export of securities by residents require central bank approval. Gold A commemorative gold coin w i th a face value of ISK 100 is legal tender but does not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold in Ice land, subject to certain legal requ iremen ts. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus tr ial users. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement January 5. The krona was devalued by 9 percent on 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND average against foreign currencies, as measured by an index weighted on a trade and payments basis. May 27. The krona was devalued by 14.6 percent on average against foreign currencies, as measured by an index weighted on a trade and payments basis. September 19. Iceland formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control November 30. Private banks and certain savings banks were granted limited rights to deal in foreign exchange. Imports and Import Payments February 28. The special excise tax on domestic and imported goods was reduced from 32 percent to 24 per- cent for the lower rate and from 40 percent to 30 percent for the higher rate. March I. The special temporary levy on biscuits, confectionery, and chocolates expired without a renewal. Payments for Invisibles April 75. The amount that resident and nonresident travelers could take out of (or bring into) Iceland in Icelandic bank notes and coins, in denominations not exceeding ISK 100, was raised from ISK 1,200 to ISK 2,100. July 29. The 10 percent tax on purchases of foreign exchange to residents for tourist travel was abolished. Exports and Export Proceeds December 22. Exports of most industrial goods pro- duced in Iceland were exempted from licenses, with effect from January 1, 1984. 246 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of India is the Indian Rupee. Exchange rates are computed from the value of the rupee, which is determined on the basis of the relationship of the rupee to a weighted basket of currencies of India's major trading partners. India maintains the relationship of the rupee to the basket of currencies within margins of 5 percent of the value adopted as the basis. Exchange rates of the rupee in terms of the pound sterling, the intervention currency, are accordingly fixed periodically by the Reserve Bank; at the end of December 1983 they were Rs 15.26 buying and Rs 15.34 selling, per £ stg. 1. Exchange rates for spot and forward purchases of deutsche mark, Japanese yen, and U .S. dollars are based on the latest available rates and trends in international markets and are announced by the Reserve Bank every day; such rates may be changed at any time, if the need arises. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the cross rate of the pound sterling with the Indian rupee. The Reserve Bank stands ready to purchase currencies of certain member countries1 of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU), deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, spot and forward, and to sell spot ACU currencies and pounds sterling. The Reserve Bank permits authorized dealers or money changers to fix the floor and ceiling rates for purchases and sales of U.S. dollar and pound sterling notes on the basis of a formula furnished by the Bank. The Reserve Bank fixes periodically the "notional" exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and pound sterling at which authorized dealers are required to sell to and repurchase from the Reserve Bank proceeds of deposits in Foreign Currency Nonresident Accounts. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized dealers are permitted to maintain balances and positions in "permitted currencies." Permitted cur- rencies are divided into two groups, Group A consisting of 20 listed currencies2 and Group B consisting of any other foreign currency that is convertible into any of the permitted currencies in fairly active markets. Authorized dealers are permitted to buy and sell spot any permitted currency from and to banks in any currency outside the Bilateral Group.3 Authorized dealers are also permitted to buy and sell forward any permitted currency against any other permitted currency. Forward purchase or sale 'Bangladesh, Burma, Islamic Republic of Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. of foreign currencies against rupees with foreign banks is prohibited. On December 31, 1983 market rates for telegraphic transfers on New York were US$9.550 buy ing (clean) and US$9.450 selling, per Rs 100, and the Reserve Bank's rates were US$9.53 buying spot and US$9.55, US$9.56, US$9.58, US$9.59, US$9.60, and US$9.61 for buying forward (for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 months' delivery, respectively), per Rs 100. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover to autho- rized dealers by purchases of sterling for delivery on any day during the first month, second month, etc., up to 9 months' delivery initially (and extendable up to 12 months), for purchases of U .S. dollars up to 12 months, and of deutsche mark and Japanese yen for delivery on any day during the first month, second month, and so on, up to the sixth month. In addition, the Export Credit and Guarantee Corporation Ltd. (ECGC) provides protection against exchange fluctuation from the date of a bid up to 15 years after the award of contract; exchange cover is offered in French francs, deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. The Reserve Bank also pur- chases the currencies of the ACU member countries listed in footnote 1 from authorized dealers for delivery of up to six months on a monthly option basis. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government, in consultation with the Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers. All proposals for direct investments in India, with or without equity participation, are reviewed by the Foreign Invest- ment Board. Under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, the general or specific approval of the Reserve Bank is necessary for the continuance of commercial, indus- trial, and trading activities in India of companies incorporated abroad, or with more than 40 percent nonresident interest, or for the establishment by them in India of any branch, office, or other place of business for carrying out any such activity. Import and export licenses are issued by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the Bilateral Group of countries (see footnote 3) and the External Group of countries (all other countries). Payments to and from the Bilateral Group of countries must be settled in Indian rupees through the appropriate clearing account. Payments to the External Group of countries may be made in rupees to the account of a resident of any country in the group or 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA in any permitted cu r rency .4 Receipts from the External Group of countries may be obtained in rupees from the account of a bank situated in any coun try in the group or in any permitted currency. However, special rules may be applicable in respect of exports under lines of credit extended by the Government of Ind ia to the governments of certain foreign countries. In add i t ion, paymen ts to and receipts from certain member countries of the ACU (see footnote 1) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, na tural gas, and the ir products) may, but need no t, be effected in Asian Monetary Un i ts through the ACU. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Ind ians and of Bhu tanese and Nepa l- ese nationals resident in Bhu tan and Nepa l, as we ll as the accounts of offices and branches of Ind ian, Bhu tane se, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organ iza t ions in Bhu tan and Nepal, are treated as resident accoun ts .5 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treatment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in two groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescrip- tion of currency purposes, that is, the accounts of banks in the Bilateral Group of countries and the accounts of banks in the External Group of countries. Accounts of banks in the External Group of countries may be credited with payments for imports, interest, d iv idends, and other authorized purposes, w i th authorized transfers from the nonresident accounts of persons and f i rms ( inc lud ing banks), provided that both the transferor and the trans- feree accounts are of the same country or countries in the External Group, and w i th proceeds from sales of permitted currencies. They may be debited for paymen ts for exports and for other paymen ts to residents of Ind i a. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and f i rms ( in c lud ing banks) and transfers to Nonres ident (Ex terna l) Accoun ts, provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of the same country or of coun tr ies in the Ex ternal Group. The balances in the accounts of banks in 4A11 remittances by na t iona ls of the People's R e p u b l ic of C h i na to any coun try outside Ind ia and all rem i t tances to the People's R epub l ic of Ch ina by any person resident in I n d i a, wh e th er for personal or trade purposes, were stopped w i th effect from November 3, 1962. S ince the resumption of trade between Ind ia and the People's R e p u b l ic of Ch in a, remittances arising out of trade transac t ions are pe rm i t ted in con fo rm i ty w i th exchange control regu la t ions. A ll non t rade - re la ted t ran sac t ions w i th the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina or n a t ion a ls of the Peop le's Repub l ic of Ch ina con t inue to be p roh ib i t ed, un le ss g en e r a l ly or specifically au tho r ized. Au tho r ized dealers are pe rm i t ted to open rupee accounts on their books in the names of the ir branches or correspon- dents in the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina or Pak i s tan w i t h o ut prior reference to the Reserve B ank, but shou ld seek d i rec t ion before opening such accounts in the names of branches of P ak i s t ani or Ch inese banks operating outside Pak is tan and the People's R e p u b l ic of Ch in a, respectively. Authorized dealers may e f fect rem i t tances to Pak is tan on behalf of private importers as in the case of imports f rom other countries; they also may effect cer ta in types of personal rem i t tances in accordance w i th regu la t ions applicable to such rem i t tances; rem i t tances for other purposes require the prior approval of the Reserve B a n k. 5However, residents of Nepal ob ta in th e ir fore ign exchange requ ire- ments from the Nepal Rastra B a n k. 248 countries in the External Group may be converted into any permitted currency. All other entries on bank accounts require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident accounts of ind iv idua ls or firms may be credited, w i thout prior approval, for payment of d iv idends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; re funds of amounts previously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remittances in appropriate foreign currency or transfers from appropriate nonresident banks' rupee accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); proceeds of foreign exchange tendered by the account holder du r ing a temporary visit to India; pro- ceeds from checks issued by the Life Insurance Corpora- tion in respect of ma tu r i ty or death claims and the surrender value of policies held by nonresidents, pro- vided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in Ind ia in an approved manner and that ac tuar ial reserves were held in India; all legitimate dues accruing in Ind ia to the account holder, such as pensions, provident f u n d s, gra tu i t ies, bonuses from a former emp loyer, income tax refunds, etc.; and proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits du r ing a month does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no indi- vidual credit is in excess of Rs 750. When the non- resident account holder is an Indian national, credits on account of w i thd rawa ls or loans from, and maturity proceeds of inves tmen ts in, the Public Provident Fund Scheme, 1968, rentals from and sale proceeds of real estate owned by the account holder, and maturity proceeds of all types of securities, as well as proceeds from the sale of securities sold on stock exchanges in Ind ia and the repurchase price of un i ts issued by the Unit Trust of Ind ia are freely allowed. Indian emigrants may ma in ta in ordinary nonresident accounts. When the ac- count holder is a foreign national of Indian origin, authorized dealers may credit the sale and maturity proceeds of all types of securities and the repurchase price of u n i t s, provided that the securities were originally purchased either w i th funds held in the account or by rem i t tance from abroad, and in the case of sale proceeds, that the sale was made on a stock exchange. Proceeds from the sale of shares owned by the nonresident account holder, whe ther he is an Ind ian national or a foreign na t ional of Ind ian or ig in, may be freely credited to his account if the shares were sold w i th the approval of the Reserve Bank. The special regulations covering funds lodged in Na t ional Defense Remittance Scheme Special Accoun ts were abolished in April 1979, and such accounts are now treated as ordinary nonresident ac- coun ts. Authorized dealers may debit the ordinary rupee accounts of nonresidents for (a) local disbursements other than for paymen ts toward investments in India and booking of international passages, but transactions amoun t ing to Rs 10,000 or more must be reported to the Reserve Bank on an ex post basis, and (b) payments toward inves tmen ts in Un it Trust of India, National Plan or Savings Certificates, and Securities of the Central or State Government. Nonres ident (External) Accounts may be opened by ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authorized dealers in India for persons of Indian nation- ality or origin resident outside India or overseas compa- nies and partnership firms which are owned at least 60 percent by nonresidents of Indian na t iona l i ty or origin. Such accounts may also be opened for eligible persons during temporary visits to India against the tender of foreign currency traveler's checks, notes, or coin. They may be credited w i th new funds remitted through banking channels from the country of residence of the account holder or from any country in the External Group. They may also be credited w i th the proceeds of foreign currency traveler's checks, personal checks, and drafts in the name of the account holder, as well as foreign currency notes and coin tendered by the account holder during his stay in India, and also w i th income on authorized investments. The transfer of funds from other Nonresident (External) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts of the same account holder is also allowed. The accounts may be debited for disburse- ments in India and for transfers abroad. Debits on account for investment in government securities and units of the Unit Trust of India, and transfers to other Nonresident (External) Accounts of the same account holder are freely allowed. Balances can also be used for purchases of foreign currency or rupee traveler's checks or traveler's letters of credit for the use of the account holder, his family and dependents, and its directors and employees in the case of corporate entities, but transfers of funds from an individual account to a similar account of another person are ordinarily not permissible. Invest- ments in the shares of Indian companies or in partnership firms, etc., or in immovable property can be made w i th the specific approval of the Reserve Bank. Interest on deposits in such accounts is exempt from income tax and is transferable. The balances held in such accounts are exempt from wealth tax. Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts denomi- nated in pounds sterling or U .S. dollars may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Indian national- ity or origin who are resident in the External Group of countries and overseas companies specified above. These accounts may be credited with amounts received through normal banking channels, inc lud ing interest, which is free of income tax and wealth tax. Balances may be repatriated at any time in the currency of denomination, without reference to the Reserve Bank. Balances can also be used for the purposes for wh ich debits to Nonresident (External) Accounts are allowed. Imports and Import Payments The Imports and Exports (Control) Act of 1947 empowers the Central Government to p roh ib i t, restrict, or otherwise control imports. Under this Ac t, the Imports (Control) Order, 1955, was issued, wh ich specified items subject to controls. Imports from Nam ib ia (South West Africa) and South Africa are prohibited. There are two types of individual licenses: General Currency Area Licenses and Specific Licenses (used for imports from specified countries). INDIA The Import Policy for fiscal year 1983/84, which came into effect on April 15, 1983, w i th its subsequent amendments, contains the regulations covering imports. The import policy divides products into three basic categories: consumption goods; raw materials, compo- nents and spare parts; and capital goods. Imports of consumption goods are prohibited except for certain essential products that are canalized and items that can be imported under the personal baggage scheme by Indians returning from abroad. Imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts for industry are classified into four categories: (1) automatically permissible, (2) limited permissible, (3) nonpermissible, and (4) can- alized. All items not included on these lists are freely available under open general license (OGL). Nonresi- dent Ind ians re turn ing home, for the first 12 months after the ir return may import all raw materials except nonper- missible items and canalized items under OGL, subject to a va lue l im it for the purpose of setting up small industries. Licenses for automatically permissible items (automatic license) are issued automatically for a value equal to 110 percent of past consumption. The 110 percent level will be considered as 120 percent in the case of an actual user (second) who has exported at least 10 percent of his production of specified products in either of the two previous years. The actual user ( indus t r ia l) may also import, w i th in the value of the automatic license, limited permissible and canalized items subject to value l im i ts for each item, provided that the total of all such items imported does not exceed 10 percent of the value of the license. Imports in 1983/84 could be made against the 1982/83 automatic license on a repeat basis, provided that the license value does not exceed Rs 200,000. Supplementary licenses may be obtained in case of need, even for the import of limited permissible items. All licenses to industry are issued against free foreign exchange. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods. Specified capital goods are banned, while other listed goods and capital goods required by return- ing Indians to set up small scale industries may be imported under OGL, subject to certain conditions. For other capital goods, licenses are granted subject to prescribed procedure. In general, licenses are granted after it has been certified that such imports are essential (essentiality certificate), unavailable from domestic sources (indigenous angle clearance) and, where the value of imports exceeds Rs 2 million, that the importer has advertised his requirements for a period of 45 days. However, imports of capital goods and technology are automatically approved by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports under a "one-window clearance procedure" provided that such imports reduce costs by at least 10 percent and that the importer exports at least 25 percent of his ou tpu t. For 13 industries and projects, capital goods may be imported on the basis of global tenders, irrespective of whether the goods are manufac- tured in India or not. However, importers are required to study domestic ava i lab i l i ty of suitable equipment before 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA calling for tenders. For imports of capital equ ipment for power generation transmission and distribution, appli- cants must obtain prior clearance from the empowered committee headed by the M in is try of Heavy Indus tr ies before calling for global tenders. Under the Import Replenishment Scheme (REP ), licenses are issued to merchant exporters, manu fac tu rer exporters, export houses, and trading houses and are freely transferable. Registered exporters are permitted to obtain REP licenses against export of specified products up to a certain proportion of the va lue of exports, and these licenses are valid for the importation of certain limited permissible and canalized items necessary for the production of the particular export product. The REP license entitlement is increased by 10 percent for exports that are shipped in Indian vessels. Subject to a va lue limit on an ind iv idual i tem, manufac turer-expor ters, export houses, and trading houses are allowed to import limited permissible items up to 20 percent of the va lue of the REP license, provided that the va lue of a single item does not exceed Rs 200,000. In add i t ion, the REP licenses may be utilized for direct imports of canalized items to the extent the license permits, and also for imports of capital goods, subject to necessary clearances and value limits. Value l im i ts do not apply to manu fac- turers whose exports in the previous two years were not less than 50 percent of production and Rs 500,000. An additional REP license equal to 10 percent of the f .o .b. value of exports is provided for imports of au toma t ic permissible items. Additional REP licenses in addition to the normal 10 percent entitlement are provided for exports of specified new products and to specified new markets. Small-scale un i ts are given especially liberal treatment in respect of import licenses, and consortia of small-scale industries may form export houses. Non in- dustrial actual users, such as research and development laboratories, scientific or higher educational ins t i tu t ions, and hospitals, are eligible to import their requirements of technical and professional equ ipmen t, raw materials, components, spare parts, or other items (but not con- sumer goods) under OGL. When a valid import license is he ld, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presenta- tion of the exchange control copy of the license and the shipping documents. License holders may make pay- ments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. Use of suppliers' credit and other long-term import credit is subject to prior approval. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be submitted are not normally allowed, but in special cases, for example, imports of machinery and capital goods where deposits have to be made w i th overseas manu fac tu re rs, the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for ad- vance payment for a part of the va lue of the import. The import of certain commodities, inc lud ing food- grains, certain oils and fa ts, a number of pharmaceutical products, natural rubber, raw cotton, raw j u t e, cement, cashew nu ts, most fertilizers, most nonferrous metals, and certain categories of steel, is reserved for the 250 Government or state-trading enterprises ( i .e ., "canal- ized"), the most important of which are the State Trading Corporation (STC), the Ju te Corporation of Ind ia, the Food Corporation of Ind ia, the Steel Au thor i ty of India, Ltd. (SA IL ), and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation. B u lk imports of certain raw materials that are not reserved for the pub l ic sector may also be arranged by state agencies, under the Industrial Raw Ma ter ia ls Assistance Center ( IRMAC) fac i l i ty. In addition to any applicable import du ty, imports are subject to an aux i l i a ry du ty of up to 30 percent ad va lorem. Among the exemp t ions are foodgrains, raw cotton, tallow, and books. Payments for Invisibles In general, paymen ts abroad for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such paymen ts, ma in ly for expenses incidental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual ob l iga t ions. Prem iums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to fore ign na t iona ls not permanently resident in Ind ia are to be paid on ly in foreign currency; payment in rupees may be made only on annuities issued against payment from recognized superannuation or pension fund s; Ind ian residents are prohibited from taking out life insurance policies in foreign currencies. Branches of fore ign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising from the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve B ank. Rem i t tances of dividends by Indian companies to the ir nonresident shareholders do not requ ire prior Reserve Bank approval, provided that certain conditions are met. Otherwise, there are no restrictions on the rem i t tance of profits, dividends, and interest to beneficiaries permanently resident outside Ind ia, provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. However, remittances of pensions and dividends and interest on shares, securities, and deposits to Ind ian na t iona ls who were granted exchange fac i l i t ies for emigration on or after January 1, 1963 but before Apr il 30, 1968 are subject to an overall l im it of Rs 20,000 a year. For emigrants granted lump- sum exchange fac i l i t ies after April 30, 1968 on grounds of ha rdsh ip, no rem i t tance of income is allowed. Foreign na t iona ls temporarily resident in India on account of the ir bus iness, profession, or employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own coun tr ies to pay insurance p rem iums, for the support of their fam i l ies, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, other than na t iona ls of the People's Republic of China, Pak is tan, and South A f r i c a, to the extent of 50 percent of net income. Requests for the remittance of larger amoun ts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Under the Foreign Travel Scheme (FTS) of 1970, residents are permitted to travel abroad without "P" form ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution formalities to all destinations, provided they have not traveled abroad under this scheme since the beg inn ing of the previous calendar year. For determination of e l ig ib i l- ity, all foreign travel other than under the Foreign Travel Scheme is disregarded. A visit under the FTS can be combined with visits for any other purpose except tours for export promotion and other business matters, hajj pilgrimage, and travel under the Neighborhood Travel Scheme. Residents are entitled to foreign exchange up to US$500 or its equivalent on a round-trip t icke t, irrespec- tive of the carrier by wh ich they travel. Authorized travel agents, airlines, and steamship companies may book passages under the Foreign Travel Scheme for any person after satisfying themselves about the intending traveler's eligibility; foreign exchange for such persons may be released by any authorized dealer after similar verification. Travel to Bangladesh, Bu rma, Ma lays ia, Ma ld ives, Mauritius, Pakistan, Seychelles, and Sri Lanka is gov- erned by the Neighborhood Travel Scheme, under wh ich residents of India visiting neighboring countries are eligible for an exchange allowance of US$250 a person every two calendar years; this arrangement cannot be combined w i th the existing Foreign Travel Scheme. Authorized travel agents, a ir l ines, and steamship companies may also book passages for persons going abroad with or without an allocation of foreign exchange (other than under the above schemes), subject only to completion of a "P" form in cases where the passage fare is paid in rupees in India. Certain categories of passen- gers, including persons traveling between Ind ia and Nepal by Indian and Nepalese airlines, deck-class passengers, and employees of a ir l ines and steamship companies traveling abroad on business for their com- pany in one of its carriers are not required to complete a "P" form. Fares for nonresidents' journeys to and from India may be settled, without Reserve Bank approval, in rupees debited to Nonresident (Ex terna l) Accounts. The export of Indian currency notes and coin, except to Nepal, is in general prohibited. The export to Nepal of Indian currency notes in denominations of Rs 100 or higher is also prohibited. However, deck-class passen- gers to Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Gu lf ports, and East Africa, and passengers to Bangladesh, Pakistan, or Sri Lanka, may take w i th them Rs 20 a person at any one time in Indian notes and coin. Exchange bureaus and authorized money changers are permitted to sell foreign currency notes and coin up to the equ iva lent of Rs 100 to travelers proceeding to Bangladesh and up to Rs 200 to those proceeding to other countries except Bhu tan and Nepal. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency that they brought in (and declared on entry if it exceeded US$1,000), less the amounts sold to authorized dealers and authorized money changers in India. Unspent rupee amounts may be reconverted into foreign currency and taken out. There is a foreign exchange allowance of up to US$750 a person for settling in and for purchase of INDIA in i t ial equipment by students going to foreign un iver- sities w i th f u ll bursaries. A foreign travel tax at a rate of Rs 100 a passenger is levied on all passengers embarking on an international journey to any destination other than Afghanistan, Bhu tan, Bu rma, Maldives, Nepa l, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. Passengers to these destinations are required to pay tax at a rate of Rs 50 a passenger. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for some items, and most commodities may be exported without a license. In respect of controlled commodities,6 no item can be exported unless it is covered by a valid license issued by the concerned licensing au thor i ty. Exports to Nam ib ia (South West Afr ica) and South Afr ica are prohibited. Border trade ( i .e ., frontier trade) between India and the Tibet region of the People's Republic of China is not allowed. Any item destined for export to Pakistan requires an export license unless it is a permissible bona fide sample or is canalized for export. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhu tan and Nepa l. An exporter must declare that the fu ll export proceeds w i ll be received and dealt w i th in accordance w i th the prescription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange ho ld ings, inc lud ing the proceeds of exports, must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or he is a foreign national or a foreign person of Ind ian origin, or he (or his foreign-born w i fe) is not permanently resident in Ind ia, and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in six months of shipment or, if the goods are sold to Afghanistan or Pak is tan, w i th in three months of sh ipmen t. Exporters are required to obtain permission from the Reserve Bank of Ind ia through authorized dealers in the event of nonreali- zation of export value w i th in the prescribed period. The Reserve Bank of India also administers a scheme under wh ich export of engineering goods (capital goods and consumer durables) is allowed under deferred credit arrangements, permitting realization of export value in installments over a period exceeding six months. Some exports, inc lud ing coffee, groundnu ts, non- manufac tured tobacco, raw cotton, raw wool, and oil cakes are subject to export du t ies. Some others, inc lud- ing footwear, roasted and salted peanu ts, man-made f ibers, live sheep and goats, are subject to m in imum prices. A substantial number of exports, ma in ly new manufactures, such as engineering goods, receive cash compensatory support, import du ty drawbacks, and exemptions. An Import Replenishment Scheme provides for imports of specified products against exports of certain products. Bona fide foreign tourists can, with the 6The export of certain commodities, i n c l u d i ng sugar, raw ju t e, and several categories of steel, is reserved for the state-trading enterprises. 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA approval of the customs, take out of Ind ia articles purchased with foreign exchange or w i th rupees acquired against foreign exchange, w i thout a va lue l im i t; s i lver- ware of up to Rs 200 a person may also be exported on the same basis, subject to a l im it of Rs 400 a f am i l y. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from inv is ib les must be surrendered. There are schemes for the priority allotment of motor scooters, and agricultural tractors against certain inward rem i t- tances of foreign exchange. The import of Ind i an currency notes and coin is, in genera l, proh ib i ted. However, deck-class passengers from Bu rma, Ma lay s ia, Singapore, Gulf ports, and East A f r ica, and travelers from Pakistan and Sri Lanka, may import in to Ind ia Rs 20 a person against presentation of evidence that they previously had exported th is amount from Ind i a. Travel- ers from Burma, other than deck-class passengers, may bring in Indian currency notes up to Rs 50 an adu lt and Rs 25 a child between the ages of 12 and 18 years. Travelers from Nepal may br ing in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be b rought in to Ind ia without l im i t, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs au thor i t ies upon arrival if the value of foreign notes, coin, and traveler's checks exceeds US$1,000 or its equ iva len t. Foreign currency notes may be sold to any authorized dealer in fore ign exchange or to any authorized money changer. Capital There are no restrictions on receipt of inward rem i t- tances from any country through authorized dealers in India; subsequent u t i l iza t ion of such funds in Ind ia is, however, subject to approval in most cases. Foreign investments, once admitted, are e l ig ib le for the same treatment that Indian enterprises receive. Banks in India may borrow freely from the ir branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are u t i l ized for the purchase of rupees from the Reserve Bank or in the in terbank market to finance their normal business operations in Ind i a; repayment of such borrowings requires the prior appro- val of the Reserve Bank and may be effected on ly when the debtor bank has no ou ts tand ing borrowings in Ind ia from the Reserve Bank or any other b ank. Foreign borrowing by nonbank Ind ian companies is subject to Reserve Bank approval; permission is granted for any loan which has not been obtained as an o f f ic ial or officially guaranteed credit by the Central Government on the basis of merits. Reserve Bank permission is required for i n i t i a t i n g, expanding, or con t inu ing in Ind ia any business a c t iv i ty or holding or acquiring shares of any company carrying on a trading, commercial, or industrial ac t iv i ty in Ind i a, by nonresidents, noncitizens, nonbank companies not incorporated under Indian law, and Ind ian companies 252 w i th over 40 percent nonres ident in te res t .7 Foreign inve s tment is governed by the Foreign Exchange Regula- t ion Act (FERA) of 1973. The Reserve Bank w i ll allow compan ies h a v i ng non res ident in terest in excess of 40 percent and up to 74 percent to con t inue their ac t iv i t ies depend ing on the ex tent to wh ich the company is engaged in "core" indu s t ry or export-oriented produc- t i o n, or in m a n u f a c t u r i ng ac t iv i t ies that require sophis- ticated techno logy. Foreign compan ies can retain a 51 percent non re s ident e q u i ty as long as the ir combined core sector p rodu c t ion, app l ica t ion of sophisticated techno logy, and export produc t ion account for not less than 60 percent of the ir annu al tu rnove r, w i th a m in i- mum of 10 percent out of th e ir production w i th in a period not exceed ing two years from the date of approval by the Reserve B a n k. If the ir comb ined core sector p roduc t ion, app l i c a t ion of sophisticated technology, and export p roduc t ion account for not less than 75 percent of th e ir a n n u al tu rnove r, fore ign compan ies can retain 74 percent non re s ident owne r sh ip. Compan ies w i th exports exceed ing 40 percent of the total ex-fac tory cost of annu al production are allowed to operate w i th 51 percent nonres ident equ i ty, and those w i th export performance exceeding 60 percent of total ex-fac tory cost of a n n u al produc t ion are e l ig ib le to retain fore ign e q u i ty up to 74 percent. Companies that export 100 percent of p roduc t ion may be who l ly owned by non res iden ts. Compan ies that were engaged predomi- n a n t ly in t rad ing a c t i v i t i e s, or th at d id not meet the other 7Pe rsons of I n d i an n a t i o n a l i ty or o r i g in who a re res ident abroad and overseas compan ies and p a r t n e r s h ip f i rms th at are owned at least 60 percent by non re s ident I n d i a ns may invest free ly in any public or p r i v a te l im i t ed c om p a n y, in any p a r tn e r sh ip or p rop r ie to rsh ip concern, and in i n d u s t r i a l, m a n u f a c t u r i n g, or trade a c t i v i ty (except where the proposed i n v e s tm e nt is in real e s t a t e ), p rov ided that the f u n ds required are e i t h er rem i t ted from abroad t h r o u gh no rmal b a n k i ng channe ls or are d r awn f rom t h e ir N o n r e s i d e nt A c c o u n t s, t h at an und e r t ak ing is given that repa t r ia t ion of the c a p i t al inv e s t ed or the prof i ts and d iv idends a r i s i ng t h e r e f r om w i ll not be r equ e s t ed, and p rov ided th at overall l im i ts on h o l d i n gs of shares and c o n v e r t i b le d eb en tu r es bought th rough the stock e x c h a n ge by n o n r e s i d e nt I n d i a ns (see b e low) are adhered to. N o n r e s i d e nt I n d i a ns and overseas compan ies d e f in ed above can use f u n ds de r ived from f re sh r em i t t an c es or he ld in t h e ir Nonres ident (E x t e r n al or Foreign Cu r rency N o n r e s i d e n t) Accounts to (a) make po r t fo l io i n v e s tm e n t, w i th r e p a t r i a t i on b e n e f i t, up to 1 percent of the c a p i t a l, p rov ided t h at t h e ir h o l d i n gs of shares and conve r t ib le deben- tu res he ld on e i t h er a r e p a t r i a b le or non repa t r iab le bas is do not exceed ( i) 5 pe rcent of the p a i d - up c ap i t al of the company concerned, or ( i i) 5 pe rcent of the to t al p a i d - up v a l ue of each series of debentures issued by the company conce rned; (b) i n v e st f ree ly in Na t ional Savings C e r t i f i c a t es w i th f u ll r e p a t r i a t i on b e n e f i t; and ( c) invest up to 40 pe rcent of the new e q u i ty c a p i t al issued by a company (other than a FERA c om p a n y) s e t t i ng up i n d u s t r i al m a n u f a c t u r i ng projects and up to 74 percent of new i n v e s tm e n t s, i n c l u d i ng exp an s ion of existing i n d u s t r i al u n d e r t a k i n gs in s p e c i f i ed p r io r i ty indu s t r ie s, w i th free r ep a t r i a t ion of such i n v e s tm e nt and income therefrom after deduction of app l i c ab le I n d i an t a x e s. Such i n v e s tm e n ts w i th repatriation benefits can a lso be made in h o s p i t a ls and 3-, 4 -, or 5-star ho te l s. Nonresident I n d i a ns and overseas comp an i e s, as d e f i n ed above, can also place f u n ds w i th p u b l ic l im i t ed c om p a n i es in I n d ia as deposits, w i th fu ll r ep a t r i a t ion b e n e f i ts p rov ided (a) the depos i ts are made for a period of th ree y e a r s, (b) the depo s i ts a re made in c o n f o rm i ty w i th the preva i l ing r u l es and w i t h in the l i m i ts prescr ibed for acceptance of deposits by such comp an i e s, and (c) the f u n ds a re made a v a i l a b le by the depositors by r em i t t a n ce from ab road or by p aym ent from the ir Nonresident ( E x t e r n al or Fore ign Cu r r en cy N o n r e s i d e n t) A c c o u n t s. Special tax concess ions a re a p p l i c a b le to i n v e s tm e n ts by non res ident Ind ians. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution criteria listed above, were required to reduce their foreign shareholding to 40 percent w i th in a specified period, or change their activities to meet the above criteria. Branches of foreign companies other than airlines, shipping companies, and liaison offices must in all cases become Indian companies. All companies are subject to "dilution" fo rmu la s, as follows: companies w i th foreign direct holdings exceed- ing 75 percent must raise 40 percent of the estimated cost of expansion through additional equ i ty capital issued to Indians; for companies w i th foreign ho ld ings above 60 percent but below 75 percent and above 51 percent but below 60 percent, the corresponding equ i ty is permitted in companies engaged predom inan t ly in in ter- nal trading and commercial ac t iv i t ies. W i thout the permission of the Reserve Bank, residents are prohibited from lending to, or depositing money w i t h, a nonbank firm or company in wh ich the nonresident interest is more than 40 percent. Nonc i t izens, non - Ind ian compa- nies, and nonbank Indian firms w i th more than 40 per- cent foreign participation must obtain Reserve Bank permission in order to acquire, ho ld, transfer, or dispose of immovable property w i th in Ind ia (except when a lease for a period of not more than five years is involved). The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is also required for all transfers of shares of Ind ian companies by nonresi- dents or foreign nationals to other persons, whe ther resident or nonresident, except where the proceeds of such shares sold by the transferor are credited to his ordinary nonresident rupee account w i th a bank au tho- rized to deal in foreign exchange in Ind ia w i th no r igh ts of repatriation outside Ind ia. Residents are prohibited, except w i th Reserve Bank permission, from engaging in any transaction wh ich increases beyond 49 percent the nonresident share of a business outside India in wh ich the nonres ident interest is 49 percent or less, and they are also proh ib i ted, except with Reserve Bank permission, from ho ld ing, acqu i r ing, transferring, or disposing of immovable property outside India (except where a lease of not more than five years is involved). Residents also require Reserve Bank approval to transfer any interest in a bus iness in Ind ia to a nonresident, a noncitizen, a nonbank company not incorporated under Indian law, or an Ind ian company with over 40 percent foreign participation. Furthermore, Reserve Bank approval is required for residents export- ing Indian securities and transferring Ind ian securities to nonresidents. Residents are prohibited —except w i th central government or Reserve Bank permission —from guaranteeing the obligation of a nonresident or the obligation of a resident in favor of a nonresident, and are also prohibited, except w i th central government permis- sion, from associating w i th or participating in any business concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects after Janua ry 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, inc lud ing capital appreciation on the original inves tmen t, may be repatri- ated at any time. However, Reserve Bank approval must be obtained before e f fec t ing a sale wh ich involves INDIA repatriation of assets. The proceeds of approved sales are allowed to be remitted in suitable annual installments, not exceeding fou r. The proceeds from l iqu ida ted for- eign inves tmen ts not e l ig ib le for repatriation are kept in a nonresident account. Ind ian na t iona ls are not normally granted any foreign exchange fac i l i t ies for emigration purposes. In cases of excep t ional ha rdsh ip, foreign exchange may be released up to the equ iva lent of Rs 100,000 in one lump sum at the time of em igra t ion; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income is kept in a nonresident account and no fu r ther rem i t tances, inc lud ing pensions, if any, are allowed. Foreign nationals who are temporarily resident in Ind ia (other than nationals of the People's Republic of Ch ina, Pak is tan, and South Afr ica) are permitted at the time of the ir retirement to transfer to their own countries the proceeds from the sale of their inves tmen ts, subject to a l im it of Rs 100,000 for each fam i ly at the time of retirement and the rema inder in annual ins ta l lmen ts not exceeding Rs 50,000; in add i t ion, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in Ind ia. There are no res tr ic t ions on the import into India of Ind ian or foreign securities. The acqu is i t ion, sale, transfer, export, or other disposal of foreign securities requires approval. Residents (other than foreign nation- als temporar i ly but not permanen t ly resident in India and the ir foreign-born w ives also not permanen t ly resident in Ind ia) who are private persons are not normally per- mitted to purchase securities or personal real estate outside Ind i a. Ind ian na t iona ls, and persons of Ind ian origin holding foreign passports, resident abroad and w ish ing to return to Ind ia to take up emp loyment or to set up small indus t r ial un i ts are upon application exempted, for a period of five years from the date of their return to India, from the requirement that any foreign currency balances in the ir possession be surrendered w i th in three months of arr iva l. As an a l terna t ive to holding such balances in the form of foreign currency, the holder may use the funds for the import of mach ine ry, raw materials, and compo- nen ts, subject to an import license, or, in small amounts, for personal requ i remen ts. Furthermore, they have the option of surrender ing their balances immed ia te ly, w i th the r ight to reacquire them w i th in f ive years should they decide to re turn to a foreign coun try. Balances held in Nonres ident (Ex terna l) Accounts or Foreign Currency (Nonres iden t) Accounts in India by such persons on the date of the ir re turn to Ind ia are also e l ig ib le for similar retransfer or reconversion fac i l i t ies. These various facili- ties are not ava i lab le in respect of earnings arising from employment abroad w i th any Indian-owned organiza- t ion. Foreign nationals in Ind ia not permanently residing there are permitted to ma in ta in foreign currency ac- counts; th is permission is also extended to foreign na t iona ls of Ind ian origin who have come to Ind ia for emp loyment of a specified du ra t ion or for an assignment not exceeding three years. Under the Re tu rn ing Ind ians Foreign Exchange Enti- t lement Scheme, persons of Ind ian na t iona l i ty or origin 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA returning to India for permanent residence on or after November 1, 1977 are entitled to avail themselves of foreign exchange to the extent of 25 percent of the amount they brought in on transfer of residence, plus the balance held in their Nonresident (External) Accounts and Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts for cer- tain specified purposes for which exchange is normally not freely available. Persons eligible under the scheme may make use of the exchange facility w i th in a period of ten years from the date of return of the head of the family. Gold A detailed control is exercised over the acqu is i t ion, possession, manufac ture, and disposal of gold through the Administration of Gold (Control) Act. There is a ban on private possession of primary gold. A l though there is no ban on possession of finished articles of gold (including coin) previously declared, there is restriction on their manufacture and acquisition. There is no restriction on the acquisition, disposal, or possession of gold ornaments, except that holdings of such ornaments (which may be of any purity) above specified l im i ts must be declared. The consumption of gold by industrial users is regulated through permits and authorizations. Control is exercised over dealers and goldsmiths through a system of licensing. Gold refining is under state manage- ment. The Government Mint is licensed to accept tenders of gold for purposes of refining and conversion into standard gold bars. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited; exports of silver bu l l ion, sheets, and plates are banned, and exports of products of silver are subject to quota restrictions. With the exception of jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler, imports of gold in any form by residents other than the monetary authorities require special authorization from the Reserve Bank and are not normally permitted; in certain cases, however, jewelers are permitted to manufacture gold jewe lry in bond from imported gold, for export purposes only. Special permis- sion for imports of gold and silver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no foreign exchange transaction is involved or the metals are needed for a particular purpose. Special permission is also granted when the gold or silver is imported for processing and re- export, provided that payment for the import w i ll not be required, that the entire quan t i ty of metal imported w i ll be re-exported in the form of jewe lry, and that the value added will be repatriated to India in foreign exchange through an authorized dealer. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry produced in India for export w i th a gold value not exceeding 10 percent of total value, and jewelry con- stituting the personal effects of a traveler, subject to certain monetary limits, are prohibited, unless the export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Under the gold jewelry export scheme, net export of gold from India is not permitted, and the export of gold jewelry is permitted only if the value added is 15 percent 254 or more; export under the scheme to the Bilateral Group of countries is not permitted. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The ruble-rupee exchange rate was re- vised to rub 1 = Rs 10.0176. January 1. The rupee value of the special currency basket used for va lua t ion of contracts under the Deferred Payments Protocol dated April 30, 1981 between the Government of Ind ia and the U . S . S .R ., for deliveries of machinery and equipment from the U .S .S .R. to India, was revised to Rs 10.5878. January 21. The ''notional" exchange rate for the pound sterling at wh ich authorized dealers were required to sell and repurchase from the Reserve Bank proceeds of deposits in Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts was changed to £1 = Rs 15.50. January 31. The "notional" exchange rate for U .S. dollars at wh ich authorized dealers were required to sell and repurchase from the Reserve Bank proceeds from Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts was changed to US$1 = Rs 9.75. February 27. The "notional" exchange rate for the pound sterling at wh ich authorized dealers were required to sell and repurchase from the Reserve Bank proceeds of deposits in Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts was changed to £1 = Rs 15.25. April 5. The "notional" exchange rate for the pound sterling at wh ich authorized dealers were required to sell and repurchase from the Reserve Bank proceeds of deposits in Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts was changed to £1 = Rs 14.50. June 3. The "notional" exchange rate for the pound sterling at wh ich authorized dealers were required to sell and repurchase from the Reserve Bank proceeds of deposits in Foreign Currency (Nonresident) Accounts was changed to £1 = Rs 15.50. Imports and Import Payments April 1. The fo l low ing changes were made in customs duties: (a) an increase of 10 percentage points in the ad valorem import duty on chemicals and chemical products (exc lud ing insecticide, pesticide, and fungicide chemi- cals, pharmaceutical chemicals and products, antibio- tics, su l fur drugs, v i tam in s, caprolactam and dimethyl terephthalate, fertilizers and allied chemicals, tanning substances, a l b um i n s, enzymes), dye intermediates, and allied chemical items; (b) an increase of 40 percentage points in the ad valorem import du ty on terephthalic acid; (c) an increase of 20 percentage points in the ad valorem import du ty on styrene butadiene rubber; (d) an increase from 65 percent ad valorem to 80 percent ad valorem in import duty (basic plus aux i l iary) on unwrought zinc; (e) an increase in the import du ty (basic plus auxiliary) on unw rought lead from 60 percent ad valorem to 80 percent ad valorem, coupled w i th withdrawal of the partial exemption from additional (countervailing) duty on lead waste and scrap; (f) an increase in the import ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution duty (basic plus aux i l iary) on polyester f iber by Rs 9 a kilogram; (g) increase in the import du ty (basic p lus auxiliary) on viscose staple fiber and viscose tow from 30 percent ad valorem to 40 percent ad valorem and on high performance, h igh tenac i ty, high wet modu lus viscose staple fiber and viscose tow, polynosic staple fiber and polynosic tow from 20 percent ad valorem to 40 percent ad valorem; (h) increase in the basic import duty on insulated electric wire, cable, bars, strips, and the like of copper from 60 percent ad valorem to 70 percent ad valorem; (i) increase (w i th specified exceptions) in the rate of 5 percentage po in ts cus toms auxiliary du ty on all imported goods, inc lud ing ma- chinery and project imports; (j) reduction in the rates of import du ty (basic, a u x i l i a r y, and add i t iona l) on 14 specified types of machines and ins t rumen ts for the electronics indus t ry to 35 percent ad valorem; (k) reduc- tion in the import duty (basic plus aux i l ia ry) on 4 types of raw materials and components for the electronics industry to 65 percent ad valorem. (In add i t ion, it was decided that only items c lass if iab le under the Central Excise Tariff No. 68 wou ld be subject to the add i t ional (countervailing) du ty ); ( 1) increase in the du ty - f ree l im i ts from Rs 80 to Rs 200 for bona fide g i f ts of food articles and medicines imported by post or as air f r e igh t, and from Rs 40 to Rs 200 for other bona fide g i ft items imported by post; (m) increase in import d u ty (bas ic) on dodecyl benzene from 60 percent to 100 percent ad valorem; (n) w i thdrawal of the partial import d u ty exemption on 2-methyl imidazole imported for manu fac- ture of drugs; (o) reduction in the basic import du ty on articles of baggage (w i th certain excep t ions) from 300 percent ad valorem to 200 percent ad valorem for amounts exceeding the first du t iab le va lues; (p) increase in the duty-free allowance from Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,250 for passengers, and up to Rs 5,000 for import of used household effects, w i th equal allowance for Ind ian passengers re tu rn ing home from abroad on exp iry of their term of contract (generally a dura t ion of one year); and (q) curtailment of the list of articles of baggage ineligible for du ty-free en try. April 15. The fo l low ing changes were made in the import system: (a) a number of i tems were sh i f ted between licensing categories; (b) the l im it on imports through the use of import licenses on a repeat basis was doubled to Rs 200,000; (c) au thor iza t ion was granted for nonresident Ind ians w i sh ing to re turn home for set- tlement or to invest in an enterprise in India to impor t, during the first 12 months after the ir re tu rn, raw materials, components, consumab les, and spares under Open General License (OGL) (sub ject to a m a x im um of Rs 500,000), and capital goods other than banned i tems (subject to a m ax imum of Rs 2 m i l l ion ), provided that the items imported were purchased out of the impor ter's foreign exchange earnings abroad; (d) the l im it on the value of a single permissible item that could be imported under automatic license was raised from Rs 100,000 to Rs 150,000 for ba l l, taper, and certain tools, and to Rs 200,000 for un i ts recommended by the Director INDIA General of Technical Development (DGTD); in add i t ion, it was decided that the l im it on the va lue of s ing le items for imports of nonperm iss ib le spares against automatic license could exceed Rs 100,000, if recommended by DGTD; (e) the l im it on imports of spares for after-sale services was halved to Rs 2.5 m i l l i o n, or Rs 5.0 m i l l ion for actual users engaged in manufac ture of power boilers or turbo generators w i th ou tput capacity of 60 megawatts or above, w i th a provision that imports beyond the specified l im it cou ld be accommodated under supple- men ta ry license; ( f) the l im it on imports of spares for stock and sale was reduced from 5 percent to 2 percent of the c . i . f. va lue of imported mach ine ry, and canalized items were made ine l ig ib le to be imported under this provision; (g) imports of components under OGL, au toma t ic, and export rep len ishment (REP) licenses by DGTD u n i ts under the Phased Manu fac tu r ing Program were made subject to prior clearance by the DGTD; such u n i ts were also required to ob ta in approval on the list of impor tab le i tems under the L ist A t tes ta t ion Procedure. (If the approved l i st was not provided w i th in 30 days of app l ica t ion, imports wou ld be allowed w i thout such a l i s t .) The procedure was, however, not made applicable to cases of au toma t ic licenses va lued up to Rs 200,000 used on a repeat basis; (h) the l ist of items importable under OGL on the condition that contracts be registered w i th DGTD before cus toms clearance was given; (i) au tho r iza t ion was granted for nonresident Ind ians inve s t ing in the electronics indu s t ry to import mach inery under OGL w i thout va lue l im i t, provided that the share of equ i ty inves tment was up to 40 percent (previously 20 percen t); (j) a l im it of Rs 500,000 was placed on imports of computer systems by nonresident Indians re tu rn ing home and in t end ing to use such a system for at least one year; (k) the l im it on capital goods imports aga inst REP license w i t h o ut ind igenous angle clearance was doub led to Rs 100,000; and (1) permission was granted to import otherwise prohibited technology pro- vided that such imports wou ld he lp in energy conserva- t ion, cost reduc t ion, and a reduction in material content, and provided that such proposed imports were approved by a Coordination Committee headed by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports (CCIE) and included representatives of the Department of Science and Tech- no logy and other Departments concerned. It was also decided that fore ign exchange up to Rs 10 m i l l ion would be released for import of technology by research and deve lopment u n i ts recognized by the Department of Science and Techno logy, if such import was recom- mended by the Coord ina t ion Committee referred to above. In add i t ion, the fo l low ing changes in import regula- t ions were made in respect of export-oriented produc- t ion: (a) exports of new products and exports to new ma rke ts (as specified by the M in i s t ry of Commerce) were granted REP licenses 10 percent in excess of the normal en t i t lemen t; (b) the va lue l im it for each import of l im i ted pe rm iss ib le items and canalized items against REP license (ava i lab le to exporters who export at least 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 25 percent of production) was doubled to Rs 200,000. In addition, the fac i l i ty was extended to export and t rad ing houses, provided that imported ma ter ia ls were disposed of only to specified manu fac tu re rs, and provided that REP licenses used for th is purpose were obtained on their own exports and did not carry a rep len ishment rate in excess of 20 percent. (The va lue l im i ts per i tem and on total imports of these items against REP licenses were removed for manu fac tu re rs whose exports in any of the previous two years were not less than (i) 50 percent of production, and ( i i) Rs 500,000); (c) cap i tal goods imports against REP license w i thout ind igenous ang le clearance were allowed to nono r ig inal rec ip ien ts of REP licenses, provided that the importer exported at least 25 percent of total production or not less than Rs 500,000, and that the va lue of imports was less than 5 percent of the f . o . b. va lue of exports; (d) the l im it on imports of technical designs and d raw ings was doubled to Rs 100 m i l l ion for manu fac tu re rs exporting at least 25 percent of production; (e) the arrangement pe rm i t t ing manufacturers exporting at least 50 percent of total production to use au toma t ic and supp lemen ta ry licenses on a repeat basis or to obtain supp lemen tary licenses w i thout the recommendation of the sponsoring au tho r i ty was extended to small-scale u n i ts expor t ing at least 25 percent of production of select products in excess of Rs 500,000 or at least Rs 10 m i l l i on in any of the two previous f inanc ial years; (f) small-scale un i ts were permitted to import prototypes up to Rs 100,000 w i t h o ut the recommendation of the sponsoring au tho r i ty; (g) one hundred percent export-oriented un i ts were perm i t ted to import, under OGL, secondhand cap i tal goods, proto- types, and diesel-generating sets; (h) indu s t r ial u n i ts already exporting 100 percent of produc t ion but not yet approved as 100 percent export-oriented u n i ts were permitted to import capital goods under OGL. In addition, the du ty exemp t ion scheme for imports was expanded to inc lude a larger number of in termed ia te chemical products and in te rmed ia te products imported by 100 percent export-oriented un i t s, and the m i n im um value-added condition for such imports by advance license holders was wa ived; (i) the scheme to a l low d u t y- free imports of raw material aga inst REP licenses was expanded to inc lude a larger number of export products; (j) the m in imum va lue of exports of select produc ts required for un i ts to q u a l i fy as export houses was doubled, to Rs 20 m i l l ion for general export houses, and Rs 5 m i l l ion for small-scale houses; the add i t ional condition that required the export va lue of both select and nonselect products to reach a certain m i n im um w i th in 5 years was abolished; (k) en t i t lemen ts for additional licenses to export houses were reduced by one th i rd, w i th the exception of f i rms that had increased exports by more than 50 percent, and the larger en t i t le- ments prev ious ly ava i lab le for sma l l -sca le houses were abolished; (1) the l im it on the va lue of a single l im i ted permissible item imported against add i t ional licenses was doubled to Rs 1 m i l l ion; (m) items importable by export houses against REP license under OGL were 256 expanded to i n c l u de spare parts and components on OGL for ac tual users, sub ject to a specific endorsement by the l icen s ing au tho r i ty; (n) the overall va lue l im it for import of l im i ted perm iss ib le and canalized items against add i t ional l icenses was raised by 2.5 percent to 7.5 percent for t rad ing houses undertaking to increase exports by at least 22 .5 percent; and (o) the list of products e l ig ib le for advance licenses was expanded. The fo l low ing other changes were also made in import regu la t ion s: (a) u n u t i l i z ed REP licenses were required to be def ined as the f .o .b. va lue of exports of select items, for compu t ing export performance for an Export Perfor- mance Cer t if ica te or an Export House Certificate; (b) sales of ind igenous ma ter ial against REP, additional, advance, impor t, or ac tual user licenses were to be considered as exports of the supplier for the purpose of ( i) c a l c u l a t i ng REP license en t i t lemen t, ( i i) qua l i fy ing as an export or t rad ing house, and ( i i i) discharging export ob l iga t ions aga inst cap i tal goods license, industrial l icen se, for approval of foreign collaboration or for approval under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act. (The REP en t i t l em ent of such sales would be higher than export sales by 10 percent); (c) consumption of indigen- ous m a t e r i al of au tom a t ic perm iss ib le items against REP, advance, impo r t, or ac tual user licenses would be inc luded in the consump t ion certificate for the purpose of app ly ing for au toma t ic licenses; (d) canalized agencies were permitted to supp ly canalized items at international prices to REP l icen se ho lders, trad ing houses, and actual users ho ld ing va l id license for direct import of such i tems; (e) sales of cap i tal goods, raw materials, compo- n en t s, and spares to 100 percent export-oriented un i ts wou ld be considered as exports for (i) discharging export ob l iga t ion w i th regard to cap i tal goods license, industrial license, or fore ign collaboration approval, (ii) grant of export house ce r t i f ica te, and ( i i i) other benefits available to exporters. (REP l icenses wou ld con t inue to be issued aga inst such s u p p l i e s .) May 24. The fo l low ing changes were made in the import system: (a) the va lue l im it on automatic imports of cap i tal goods and technology against REP licenses by manu fac tu re rs expo r t ing at least 25 percent of production was increased from Rs 0.5 m i l l ion to Rs 2 m i l l ion, and importers were pe rm i t ted to use REP licenses acquired from others for t h is purpose; (b) supplementary licenses issued to m anu f a c tu r e rs expor t ing at least 50 percent of produc t ion were made va l id for imports of limited pe rm i s s ib le i tems; (c) a one-w indow clearance procedure was in troduced whereby imports of capital goods and techno logy wou ld be au toma t ica l ly cleared by the CCIE for exporters expor t ing at least 25 percent of production, provided that such imports would reduce costs of produc t ion by at least 10 percent; (d) the REP license en t i t l em ent was increased by 10 percent for exports sh ipped in Ind i an vessels; (e) fre ight charges were to be exc luded for purposes of ca lcu la t ing the u t i l iza t ion of au toma t ic and REP licenses for imports carried by Indian vessels; (f) the v a lue l im it on imports of machinery by manu fac tu re rs exporting at least 50 percent of production ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to less without indigenous angle clearance was increased from Rs 2 million to Rs 5 m i l l ion, and importers were per- mitted to use REP licenses acqu ired from others for this purpose; (g) the l im it on the va lue of a s ing le l im i ted permissible item that could be imported under au toma t ic license was increased from Rs 100,000 to Rs 150,000; (h) manufacturers exporting 100 percent of production were given greater f l ex ib i l i ty in the use of REP licenses and were permitted to import l im i ted permissible and canalized items against REP licenses acquired from others; and (i) web-fed h igh speed letter rotary and offset rotary printing machines were moved to OGL; and (j) firms in the Free Trade Zone were permitted to sell in the domestic market up to 25 percent of produc t ion, against import licenses. July 8. A number of items were sh if ted restrictive import licensing categories. July 23. In a mod if ica t ion of the global tender system for imports of capital goods for 13 indus t r ies, importers were required to s tudy domestic av a i l ab i l i ty of su i tab le equipment before ca l l ing for global tenders. For imports of equipment for power t ransm iss ion and d i s t r ibu t ion, applicants were required to obtain pr ior clearance from the competent committee (headed by the M in i s t ry of Heavy Industries) before f loa t ing global tenders. August J. T he cond i t ions under wh i ch mu t ton ta l low could be imported by exporters aga inst REP licenses were tightened. August 19. Specific imports and componen ts required in the electronics indus t ry were g iven complete or par t ial exemption from import d u t i e s. August 22. The import of beef ta l low was banned. September 1. Import du ty was reduced from 62 per- cent to 20 percent for three types of tex t i le mach ine ry, on condition that 75 percent of the ou tput from such machines be exported. September 6. The import of m u t t on ta l low against advance licenses, imprest l icenses, and special imprest licenses was prohibited and exporters were required to obtain their supplies from the State Trad ing Corporation of India. September 20. Imported inpu ts of the Oil and Na- tional Gas Corporation (ONGC) and Oil Ind ia L im i ted were exempted from import d u t y. September 20. Sales to ONGC were b rought w i th in the scheme for "deemed exports." September 21. The import of ce l lu lo s ic tops was banned and viscose f i lament below 600 den ier was shifted from OGL to the l i st of cana l ized impor ts. October 1. The import of all an imal ta l low was banned. October 77. A number of items were sh if ted between import licensing categories. October 25. Supplies made by 100 percent export- oriented firms to projects in Ind ia aga inst in te rna t ional competitive b idd ing were b rought w i t h in the scheme for "deemed exports." November 11. A number of i tems, name ly, laur ic acid, oleic acid, pa lms, pa lm fa t ty ac id, pa lm kernel o i l, INDIA pa lm stearine, pamitic acid, and soap stocks, appearing in the limited permissible or banned list were shifted to the canalized l is t. November 14. N ia lam ide was placed in Appendix 4, that is, the l ist of banned items. In addition, acetate f i lament yarn (exc lud ing first qu a l i ty) was canalized; rayon grade wood pu lp was shifted from Part II to Part I in list 8 of Appendix 10; and plates and coils to IS-2062 (or equ iva len t) were cana l ized. November 15. Import of raw s i lk, silk fabrics, thread, yarn, waste, or no i ls was disallowed for import against acquired licenses by the registered exporters. December 5. Importers of copper, other than those us ing advance license or special interest license, were required to register their import contract with DGTD before impo r ta t ion. Import of copper scrap or copper m i ll scale was also made subject to registration of contract w i th DGTD. December 17. Imports of certain textile machinery for export production were permitted with concessional cus toms d u t y. Exports and Export Proceeds January 11. The ban on the export of writing and p r in t ing paper was removed and its export was allowed w i t h in a l im i ted ce i l ing. January 28. Exports by Bharat Leather Corporation up to March 31, 1983 made out of reptile or snake skins were made subject to specified conditions. February 9. A ban was removed on the export of cotton yarn in coun ts 58 and below, and exports of all coun ts up to 60 were brought w i th in a specified ceiling under OGL-3. In add i t ion, cotton yarn above 60 count was allowed freely under OGL-3. February 10. The m in imum export price for certain va r ie t ies of tobacco was announced. April 1. The 1983/84 budget extended the income tax relief scheme in i t ia ted in 1982/83, thereby allowing tax deductions up to 1 percent of export turnover (in addition to a l low ing tax deductions of up to 5 percent of incremen tal export turnover as compared w i th the prev- ious year). April 15. The announced export policy of 1983/84 inc luded the fo l low ing changes in regulations: (a) the ban on the export of sugarcane and khandsani was removed and these items were placed on OGL; (b) exports of peanut bu t ter, jaggery, barley, and compound cattle and pou l try feeds were placed on OGL; (c) exports of nonbasma ti rice were banned; (d) exports of castor oil to the General Currency Area were "decanalized"; (e) exports of groundnut extractions were "decanalized" and permitted to the private sector w i th in a l im i t ed ce i l ing; ( f) the m in imum export price of live bu f fa loes was increased from Rs 5 to Rs 6 a kilogram ( l ive w e igh t ), and the m i n im um export price of live sheep and goats was increased from Rs 11 to Rs 12 a k i log ram ( l ive we igh t ). In addition, the m in imum export price of bu f fa lo meat was increased from Rs 9 to Rs 10 a k i log r am. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA April 19. Jute carpet backing was brought under export trade control, canalizing its exports to North American countries. For other destinations, the item was allowed on a decontrolled basis. April 23. A ban was imposed on export of rough (uncut and unset) precious and semiprecious stones. May 21. Floor prices were announced for certain new varieties of Coir Products. June 9. Bans were imposed on exports of artistic articles made of tortoise shell having silver as an ingredient and of artistic handcrafted wooden furn i ture and decorative accessories covered w i th silver sheets. June 9. The floor price for exports of barite lumps was fixed un iform ly at US$37 a metric ton f .o .b. Indian Port, Madras, irrespective of the destination of export. June 14. The export of rhubarb roots was allowed within a limited ceiling. June 22. A ban was imposed on the export of corn oil. June 25. It was announced that requests for export of snake venom would be considered by the CCIE on their merits. July 21. In addition to allowing export of real Madras handkerchiefs made of handloom on letter of credit terms as provided for in existing policy, authorization was granted for such exports on "cash-on-delivery" basis to Cotonu, Lome, and Accra, provided that exporters gave documentary evidence to the licensing authority that they had obtained a cover from the Export Credit and Guarantee Corporation. July 21. Floor prices were announced for the follow- ing chemicals eligible for export under OGL-3: brucine sulphate, at Rs 700 a kilogram; brucine alkaloids, Rs 800 a kilogram; strychnine alkaloids, Rs 450 a kilogram; and strychnine HC1, strychnine sulphate, and strychnine nitrate, Rs 350 a kilogram. August 8. The export of ready-to-serve Indian Snacks with pulses as the base were allowed for export in consumer packs of not more than one kilogram each, subject to the following minimum export prices: roasted grams (whole), Rs 7 a kilogram; fried and salted channa dal, moong dal, dal moth, kabli channa, etc., Rs 10 a kilogram. August 8. The export of black pepper (ASTA quality MG-I) was brought under Export Trade Control for export under OGL-3, subject to a m in imum export price of Rs 13,000 a metric ton, f .o .b. August 23. Requests for exports of foodgrains of all varieties including wheat and paddy seeds were to be considered by CCIE on merits. August 29. Administrative procedures for export (GR procedures) were rationalized to make them more effective and to speed up compilation of balance of payments data through greater use of computers. September 13. Wool tops were brought under Export Trade Control, and requests for exports of wool tops were required to be considered by CCIE on merits. However, in cases where raw wool has been imported against advance or imprest licenses, wool tops would be 258 permitted for export w i thout any licensing formalities, in accordance with the conditions of advance or imprest licenses. September 14. Requests for exports of raw magnesite were required to be considered by CCIE on merits. September 14. The scheme for export to quota coun- tries of ready-made garments, knitwear fabrics, and made-ups dur ing the period January 1 to December 31, 1984 was announced. September 19. To ensure that only live buffaloes and live sheep would be exported and that exports of meat conformed to health standards, detailed procedures for quarantine and quality control were announced. September 19. Export of streptomycin sulphate bulk by manufacturer exporters was allowed without quantita- tive restrictions. In addition, in order to ensure that only meat of buffaloes, Indian sheep, and goats conforming to health standards is exported, compulsory quality control preshipment inspection was introduced. September 27. The floor price for exports of barite lumps was fur ther reduced from US$37 to US$32 a metric ton, f .o .b. Indian port, Madras. (During 1983, CCS rates were reviewed in respect of about 50 items.) October 4. A ban was imposed on export of bamboo. November 21. Meat and bonemeal were brought under control in order to allow their export within a limited ceiling. November 30. Floor prices of coir and coir products were revised. December 30. The m in imum export price for niger seeds was abolished. Capital March 30. The fo l low ing additional facilities were provided to encourage investment in India by nonresi- dents of Indian na t iona l i ty or origin (and by companies owned at least 60 percent by them): (a) hospitals were included among eligible projects for direct investment in new issues with fu ll repatriation benefits under specified schemes; (b) the Reserve Bank permitted Indian compa- nies to appoint agents abroad and pay them reasonable compensation to secure direct investments by nonresi- dent Ind ians in new issues of shares and debentures; and (c) nonresident Indians were permitted to place funds in public limited companies (including government under- takings) in India w i th fu ll repatriation benefits, provided that deposits were made for three years and paid either out of remittances or from their nonresident (external) rupee or foreign currency accounts. April 1. As part of the 1983/84 budget, a number of fiscal incentives were introduced for investments by nonresident Ind ians in shares in Indian companies, deposits w i th public limited Indian companies, units of the U n it Trust of Ind ia, securities issued by the Central Government of Ind ia, and any other assets specified by the Central Government of India by official gazette. Income and long-term capital gains from such invest- ments were made taxable at a flat rate of 20 percent plus ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA a surcharge of 2.5 percent, and nonresident Ind ians were given the option of pay ing the taxes at normal rates applicable to resident taxpayers if these were more favorable to them. These inves tmen ts were also exempt from wealth and gift taxes. May 16. The portfolio inves tment scheme for nonres- ident Indians was revised as fo l lows: designated banks were permitted to purchase equ i ty shares and conver t ib le debentures without specific Reserve Bank approval for each transaction up to an overall ce i l ing of (i) 5 percent of the total paid-up equ i ty capital of the company, and (ii) 5 percent of the total paid-up value of each series of convertible debentures issued by the companies. The ceiling of 5 percent on equ i ty shares and debentures wou ld apply to purchases both w i th and w i thout repatria- tion benefits; equ i ty shares acquired on conversion of debentures were not included in the ce i l ing. Prior Reserve Bank approval wou ld be required for purchases in excess of these ce i l ings. July 1. The requ irement for Reserve Bank approval for the sale and t rans fe r, through a recognized stock exchange, of shares of Ind ian companies held by nonresident Ind ians on a nonrepatriation basis to nonresi- dent or resident Ind ians was abolished, provided that the proceeds of such shares sold by the transferor were credited to his ordinary nonresident rupees account w i th a bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange in Ind ia, w i thout r ight of repatriation outside Ind ia. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position on December 31, 1983} Exchange Arrangement The currency of Indones ia is the Indon e s i an R u p i a h. Effec t ive March 30, 1983 the m idd le rate of the r u p i ah was depreciated by 27.6 percent in terms of the U . S. dollar, the intervention cu r rency. At the same t im e, Bank Indonesia announced that it wou ld c o n t i n ue to follow a policy of a managed f loa t, t ak ing in to account a somewhat broader set of currenc ies than was p r ev iou s ly the case. Transactions in the Jaka r ta Foreign Exchange Bourse are effected at rates w i t h in 1 percent e i ther side of the middle rate of the r u p i a h; on December 31, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates for te leg raph ic t ran s fe rs in the Bourse were Rp 992.50 and Rp 996.00, r e s p e c t i v e l y, per US$1. Exchange rates for certain other c u r r e n c i e s' are determined on the basis of the rates in the J ak a r ta Bourse for the U .S. do l lar and rates for the cu r renc ies concerned in in terna t ional ma rke ts. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. In the Bourse, d a i ly calls for exchange are conduc ted under the management of Bank Indones ia. B i d d i ng for exchange is restricted to the au tho r ized fo re ign exchange banks, nonbank f in an c i al in s t i tu t ion s, and l icensed foreign exchange dealers. B ank Indone s ia s tands w i l l i ng to'trade un l im i t ed amoun ts of fore ign ex ch ange or r u p i ah w i th au thor ized traders at its in t e rv en t ion rates for the day. Bank Indones ia also offers au tho r ized b a n ks and nonbank f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions cer ta in f a c i l i t i es for swap transactions in U .S. do l lars. Administration of Control The imp lemen ta t ion of exchange and trade control is entrusted to Bank Indones ia, the M i n i s t ry of Trade, the M in is try of F inance, foreign exchange b a n k s, and the customs au tho r i t ies. Exchange control is adm in i s te red by Bank Indonesia and the M i n i s t ry of F inance. Sabang is en t i re ly ou ts ide the I n d o n e s i an ex ch ange and trade control s y s t em ,2 but the Indon e s i an r u p i ah is legal tender there. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts mu st be effec ted th rough the authorized banks and are no rm a l ly effec ted in convert- ible currencies. Indonesia m a i n t a i ns no operative b i l a t- eral paymen ts ag reemen ts .3 'Currenc ies common ly used in I n d o n e s i a 's i n t e r n a t i o n al t r an s- actions, that i s, A u s t r a l i an do l l a r s, A u s t r i an s c h i l l i n g s, B e l g i an f r a n c s, Canadian dollars, Dan ish k rone r, deu tsche m a r k, French f r a n c s. Hong Kong do l la rs, I t a l i an l i r e, Japanese y e n, M a l a y s i an r i n g g i t, N e t h e r- lands g u i l d e r s, New Zealand do l la r s, No rw eg i an k ron e r, Por tuguese escudos, pounds s t e r l ing, Singapore d o l l a r s, Sw ed i sh k rono r, and Swiss f rancs. 2W i th the excep t ion th at the p r o h i b i t i on on impo r ts of ce r ta in au tomob i les is app l icab le also in Sabang. 3Indones ia m a in t a ins an inopera t ive b i l a t e r al p a ym e n ts ag reement w i th the People's R e p u b l ic of C h i n a. 260 Nonresident Accounts There are no res tr ic t ions on the opening by foreign n a t ion a ls of accounts in Indonesia in rupiahs or foreign cu r renc ies w i th au tho r ized foreign exchange banks. No d i s t in c t ion for exchange control purposes is made be- tween res ident and nonresident accounts. However, no checks may be d rawn on foreign currency accounts; if the account ho lder w ishes to w i thd raw fund s, a letter mu st be sent to the b a n k. Imports and Import Payments There is a reg is try of authorized importers. Since October 31, 1968 on ly Indonesian nationals can be au tho r i z ed as impor ters, a l though foreign investors are p e rm i t t ed to import the items required for their own projects. Impo r ts from Ango la, the People's Repub l ic of China, Is rae l, and South A f r i ca are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of spec if ied commod i t ie s. The latter inc lude bu i l t-up sedans and s ta t ion wagons; components for the assembly of l u x u ry au tomob i l e s; b u i l t - up commercial vehicles and mo torcyc les; radio and television sets in built-up or s em i -kno ck ed -down cond i t ion; and pesticide pentha- ch lo ropheno l. Impo r ts of m any goods have long been restricted to approved impo r te rs, wh i ch are often state enterprises. B e g i n n i ng from December 1983, imports of chemical i n d u s t r i al p roduc t s, heavy equ ipment and spare parts, m a c h i n e s, m a ch ine equ ipm ent and spare parts, electric and e lec t r ic i n d u s t r i al produc ts, and metal industrial p roduc ts mu st be effected by registered importers approved by the M in i s t er of Trade. Importation of au tomo t ive spare parts and tex t i les is subject to the same reg is t ra t ion and approval requ i remen ts. Importers of produc ts w i t h in a g iven product group must have a l icense from the M i n i s t ry of Trade w i t h in that group. Certain ag r i cu l tu r al commodities can be imported only by registered importers designated by the Minister of Trade; these commod i t ies inc lude garlic (fresh or dried), green peas, c loves, ma ize, sago f lou r, manioc (cassava) f l o u r, g r o u n d n u ts (w i th or w i thout shells), copra, palm f r u i t, p a lm ke rne ls, soybeans, soybean flour, palm oil, raw or re f ined coconut o i l, palm kernel oil, olein, s tea r in, tapioca ( g r a n u l e s ), soybean cake and residue, unprocessed tobacco and tobacco res idue, salt, rubber, c r umb rubbe r, and rubber scrap and residue. Of these commod i t ie s, green peas, maize, soybeans, soybean f l o u r, and soybean cake can be imported only by the Gove rnment Food Procurement agency (BULOG). Tapioca and ke rnel f lou rs can be imported only by PT T j ip ta N i aga (a s ta te- trad ing company). Importation of steel produc ts in the forms of steel slabs, steel sheets for vessels, ho t-ro l led steel sheet in coils, and other ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution specified hot-rolled sheets is controlled by the Govern- ment and can be made only by Persero N iaga (a state- trading company), acting on behalf of PT Krakatau Steel, a government-owned steel m i l l. Beg inn ing from March 1983, importation of a number of products is handled by state monopolies as fo l lows: f in ished prod- ucts made of iron or steel may only be imported by PT Dharma Niaga and PT Kerta Niaga; imports of off-the- road tires may only be executed by PT Dharma N iaga and PT Pantja Niaga; imports of brake fluids and lubricating fat are made solely by PT Pan t ja N iaga and PT Tjipta Niaga; and HVS- type paper and m a n i f o l d, onionskin, seed, corona, reinforced and d raw ing paper, and HVO litho may be imported only by PT Pantja Niaga. Imports of 46 d i f fe rent categories of food, beverages, and fruits can be effected only by registered importers designated by the M in is ter of Trade. Beg in- ning from March 1983, the procurement policies of companies approved for the importation of f r u i t, alco- holic beverages, chickens, and eggs are evaluated annually by the Government, although explicit quan t i ta- tive restrictions are not placed on these products. Import duties, wh ich are partly specific and partly ad valorem, are imposed on the basis of "check" prices (indicative prices) determined by the M in is ter of Trade. These prices reflect c . i . f. prices and are changed when prices abroad d iffer by more than 10 percent from the check prices for the preceding three mon ths. Sales taxes of 5, 10, and 20 percent are levied on most imports on their c . i . f. value plus import d u t y. Certain commodities are granted preferential du ty treatment w i t h in the framework of the ASEAN preferential trading ar- rangements. Items that are exempt from import du t ies are also exempt from sales taxes. Since 1967, a special tax, called the MPO tax has been applied to imports. The MPO tax is a w i thho ld ing tax for which payments can be credited against the i n d i v i d u a l 's or corporation's domestic income tax l iab i l i ty. The MPO import tax at present is Rp 70 per US$1 of c . i . f. import value for licensed importers and Rp 200 per US$1 for all other importers, equivalent to tax rates of 7 .1 percent and 20.3 percent, respectively .4 Public sector imports must be effected in vessels operated by Indonesian companies. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Angola, the People's Repub l ic of China, Israel, and South Afr ica are proh ib i ted, as are exports to all countries of gold ore, pure gold, s i lver ore, and pure silver; rawhides of cattle; certain categories of unprocessed or low-qua l i ty rubber; certain logs and timber; all types of waste paper (from Java and Madura); scrap of bronze and copper (except from Irian Jaya); iron scrap; steel scrap; fertilizers; rice; sugar; kapok seeds; antiques of cultural value; and raw ra t tan. 4The MPO tax was abolished on J a n u a ry 1, 1984, as part of a national tax reform. INDONESIA Reg is tra t ion of authorized exporters is required. Ex- ports of certain domestically produced commodities5 are controlled by means of quotas, or requirement of prior au thor iza t ion w i th the M in is t ry of Trade in order to ma in ta in supplies to meet domestic demand. Concern w i th domestic price s tab i l i ty sometimes involves suspen- sion of exports of various items on th is list. The prior au thor iza t ion of the M in is ter of Trade is required for the export of f la tba rk crepe, c inchona bark, clove seeds, pepper seeds, silver by PN Aneka Tambang, and all goods produced from subs id ized raw materials. Exports of plywood, veneer, and blockboard may be effected on ly by registered exporters of plywood recognized by the Ministry of Trade. All other commodities may be free ly exported by registered private f irms and state- trad ing f i rm s. There are no restrictions on the type of f inanc ial arrangement exporters may use. There is no surrender requ irement for export proceeds. Exports of certain products are subject to an export tax: exports of copra cake, sawn t imber, palm o i l, and a few other com- modities are subject to a 5 percent tax, the major mineral products to a 10 percent t ax, and semiprocessed ra t tan, un s awn t imber ( logs), and certain types of hides to a 20 percent tax. A few products are also subject to an additional export t ax, inc lud ing sonokeling wood (8 .1 percen t), ram in wood (0.75 percent), ebony (20.84 percent), and miscellaneous woods (6.75 per- cen t ). To ca lcu la te export taxes on the principal com- modities other than petroleum and gas, the sale prices must not be lower than the "indicative" prices deter- mined periodically by the Minister of Trade. An MPO tax is also applied to exports (see footnote 4). The tax rates were Rp 40 = US$1 (or equ iva len t) for exports of log and t imber products and Rp 15 per US$1 for all other products, equ iva lent to tax rates of 3.9 percent and 1.5 percent, respectively. When exports are effected on the basis of a letter of cred i t, documents aga inst paymen t, or acceptance, the export t ax, the additional export t ax, and the MPO tax on exports are collected by the foreign exchange bank at the t ime the exporter receives payments. This collection procedure involves a multiple currency practice. When other forms of export settlement are used, the exporter gene ra l ly pays these three taxes d irec t ly to the Treasury. Under the Export Certificate Scheme, exporters of specified products are e l ig ib le for a rebate of customs du t ies, import sales taxes, and MPO taxes paid on imported inpu t s. To q u a l i f y, an exporter must submit an application to the Ministry of Finance, providing such in fo rma t ion as the sources of imported raw materials, the ir c . i . f. v a lu e s, import du t ies and other taxes paid on imported raw ma te r ia ls, and the f .o .b. price of f in ished products being exported. The objective of the scheme is to re imbu rse the exporter for all indirect taxes he has 5These i n c l u de logs, f e r t i l i z e r, cemen t, cons truc t ion re inforcemen ts of i ron, au tomob i le t i r e s, paper, a sph a l t, s tea r in, ca t t le, salt, wheat f l o u r, suga r, m a i z e, soybeans, r ice, copra, coconut o i l, pa lm o i l, pa lm k e rn el o i l, o l e i n, a nd mea t. 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA paid on imported i n p u t s. The rate of tax rebate is expressed as a percentage of the f . o . b. v a l ue of expo r ts. Once the rate of tax rebate is de term ined for a spec if ic product, it is applied to all exporters of the same p roduct w i thout fu r ther proof of the use of imported inpu ts un t il a new rate is de term ined. At presen t, some 544 i tems are e l ig ib le for the Export Cer t if ica te Scheme. These cons ist exc lus ive ly of manu fac tu red goods, and the rates of certificates range from 1.5 percent to 20 percent. Export certificates may be used by the expor ter to pay other taxes or be cashed at the T reasu ry. Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Ph i l ipp ines in exchange for certain e l ig ib le goods. In th is "border-crossing" trade w i th M a l ay s i a, the va lue of import or export t ran sac t ions mu st not exceed M$600 a m o n t h, wh e th er transpor ted overland or by sea; for the P h i l i p p i n e s, the v a l ue of imports or exports must not exceed the rup iah or peso equ iva lent of US$150 for a s ing le t r ip if transpor ted by seagoing vessel or US$1 ,500 if transported by boa t. Beg inn ing from J anu a ry 1982, the Indone s ian Gov- ernment may, at its option, require all foreign f irms ( inc lud ing domestic f i rms in wh i ch fo re igne rs ho ld equ i ty) b idd ing for governmen t-sponsored con s t ruc t ion or procurement projects to agree to f u l f i ll a coun te r- purchase o b l i g a t i o n .6 B idders for projects w h i ch i n c l u de counterpurchase requ i remen ts m u st s u bm it w i th t h e ir bids a letter agreeing to purchase and export the equ iv a l ent of the con t rac t 's va lue in selected Indone s ian products ( f . o . b .) d u r i ng the l i fe of the con t r a c t .7 Goods eligible to be used in f u l f i l l i ng the coun ter- purchase requ i rement in c lude a g r i c u l t u r al p roduc t s, manu fac tu red products and other p roduc t s, e x c l u d i ng pe t ro leum, n a tu r al gas, and i tems sub ject to expo rt quotas. Lists of eligible products are issued pe r iod ica l ly by the Department of Trade. The l i st of acceptable i tems has been expanded to in c lude exports of labor serv ices. The foreign supp l ier may f u l f i ll i ts coun te rpu rchase requ irement e i ther d irec t ly or th rough a th i rd pa r ty, possibly from ano ther coun try wh i ch is acceptable to the Indonesian Government. The transference of coun ter- purchase ob l iga t ions may be managed by a b a n k, but the primary re spon s ib i l i ty for f u l f i l lm e nt of the r equ i s i te countertrade rests w i th the contractor. When a f i rm acts to f u l f i ll a coun terpurchase ob l iga- t ion, it mu st meet one of two r e q u i r em e n t s: (a) if it has not prev ious ly exported Indones ian p roduc t s, its expor ts of acceptable products must f u l f i ll the coun te rpu rchase obligation not later than the t e rm in a t ion period of the contract; and (b) if the f i rm has exported Indones ian goods du r ing the preceding year, q u a l i f i ed exports 6 Projects or parts thereof f i n a n c ed w i th conce s s ional loans as w e ll as w i th credits from the World B a n k, the A s i an D e v e l o pm e nt B a n k, and the I s l am ic Deve lopment B ank a re exemp ted f rom su ch r e q u i r em e n t s, as is the p rocu rement of soph i s t ica ted t e c h n o l o gy and p ro f e s s ion al services and p ro cu r em en ts i n v o l v i ng j o i nt v e n t u r es b e tw e en s ta te enterprises and foreign inves tors. 7Contract v a lue for th is purpose is d e f i n ed as b e i ng net of w h at the contractor spends on Indon e s i an s u p p l i e s, t ax e s, d u t i e s, and wages paid w i t h in the c o u n t r y. 262 d u r i ng the c u r r e nt year mu st exceed those of the previous year by at least the v a l ue of the counterpurchase o b l i g a t i o n. In p r i n c i p l e, f a i l u re to f u l f i ll one's counter- pu rcha se ob l ig a t ions may re su lt in a pena l ty of up to 50 percent of the coun te rpu rchase shortfall; f inal pay- m e nt to the fo re ign supp l i er w i ll not be made u n t il after the coun te r t rade has been effec ted. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not res tr ic ted or sub ject to con tro l. Proceeds from i n v i s i b l es need not be surrendered. Travelers may take out and b r i ng in any amount in fore ign bank notes but on ly Rp 50,000 in Indone s ian notes and coin other th an gold and s i l v er commemo ra t ive co ins (see section on Go ld, be low ). Capital Foreign cap i tal inves ted in Indones ia is governed p r im a r i ly by the Foreign Cap i tal Inve s tment Law of J a n u a ry 10, 1967, as amended in Augu st 1970, by P re s iden t ial G u i d e l i n es issued on J anu a ry 22, 1974 and September 2 1, 1974, together w i th two Presidential Decrees p romu lg a t ed on October 3, 1977, and by a P r e s i d e n t i al Decree issued in J u ly 1981. In p r inc ip le, such i n v e s tm e n ts may be und e r t ak en on ly th rough a jo int v e n t u re w i th an Indone s ian pa r tne r. A ll inves tmen ts in Indon e s ia r equ i re the approval of the President on the recommenda t ion of the Inv e s tm ent Coord ina t ing Board ( B K PM ). En te rp r i ses that a re w h o l ly or la rge ly operated in Indone s ia as separate bu s ine ss u n i ts mu st be incor- porated under Indonesian law and must have their d om i c i le in Indon e s i a. The opera t ing pe rm it for foreign i n v e s tm e nt is u s u a l ly v a l id for a m a x im um of 30 years. Am o ng the indu c em en ts offered are exemp t ion from, or reduc t ion in, corporate and d iv idend taxes and customs d u t i es on impo r ted raw ma te r ia ls and cap i tal goods for a ce r ta in n um b er of years. Inves to rs are granted the right to make c a p i t al r ep a t r i a t ion, to transfer prof i ts (after s e t t l em ent of taxes and f i n a n c i al ob l iga t ions in In- don e s i a) and to make t ran s fe rs re la t ing to expenses connected w i th the emp loym ent of foreign na t iona ls in I n d o n e s i a, and in respect of depreciation allowances a f ter the e x p i r a t i on of the tax ho l id ay from corporation t ax. The law provides that no transfer permit shall be issued for c ap i t al repa t r ia t ion as long as the inves tmen ts b e n e f it from tax r e l i e f; at presen t, howeve r, foreign p a ym e n ts do not r equ i re a t r an s f er pe rm i t. The explora- t ion and deve lopment of pe t ro leum resources are gov- erned by the Pe t ro leum Law of 1960. A Debt Inv e s tm ent Conversion Scheme (DIGS) exists for the bene f it of fore ign creditors ho ld ing nonguaran- teed c l a ims aga in st Indon e s i a. R u p i a hs covered by the Scheme are adm in i s t e r ed in two k i n ds of DICS-Rup iah Accoun t s, A and B, the former re la t ing on ly to c la ims of w h i ch the c red i tor is the f i rst ho lde r. Pr iva te creditors w i l l i ng to accept the terms of the Scheme and prepared to make inve s tmen ts under the Foreign Capital Investment Law of 1967 are pa id in rup i ahs in se t t lement of their c l a im s. These c l a ims are t ran s fe rab le to other potential ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution investors in Indon e s i a, but o n ly the o r i g i n al c r ed i to r 's DIGS rup iahs may be used, in the c red i to r 's own p ro j e c ts that have been approved u n d er the Foreign C ap i t al Inves tment Law of 1967, for the pu rcha se of fo re ign exchange for the import of e q u i pm e nt and raw m a t e r i a ls necessary for the e s t a b l i s hm e nt and opera t ion of those projects. There are no l im i t a t i o ns on the r em i t t a n ce to I n d o n e s ia of cap i tal in the fo rm of fo re ign ex ch ange or com- mod i t ies. Bo th res iden ts and n o n r e s i d e n ts may ho ld foreign currency deposits w i th fo re ign ex ch ange b a n k s. However, foreign exchange b a n ks and n o n b a nk f i n a n c i al ins t i tu t ions a re sub ject to B a nk I n d o n e s ia d i r e c t i v es w i th respect to borrow ing abroad, the accep tance of depos i ts from non re s iden t s, and the i s suance of c e r t i f i c a t es of deposit to non re s iden t s. A 15 pe rcent reserve r e q u i r e- ment is app l icab le to the fo re ign cu r rency l i a b i l i t i es of foreign exchange bank s; no reserve r e q u i r em e n ts are applicable to the fo re ign bo r row ings of n o n b a nk f i n a n- cial i n s t i t u t i o ns or p r i v a te c om p a n i e s. C e r t a in bo r row ing abroad is subject to c lea rance by B a nk I n d o n e s i a, and a ll foreign borrow ing is sub ject to repo r t ing to B a nk Indonesia or the M i n i s t ry of F in an c e, or b o t h. The p r ior approval of the M i n i s t er of F in an ce is r e q u i r ed before any p u b l ic en terpr ise or p u b l ic sector body may accept a loan from abroad. Indones ian c i t i z e ns and re s iden ts of fo r e ign n a t i o n a l i ty may free ly t r an s f e r, nego t ia te, im p o r t, and expo rt s e cu r i- ties denom ina ted in r u p i a hs or in fo r e ign c u r r e n c y. Gold Indones ia has issued two c omm em o r a t i ve go ld co in s, w h i ch a re legal tende r. R e s i d e n ts may f ree ly p u r c h a s e, ho ld, and sell gold and gold c o i ns in I n d o n e s i a. Expo r ts of gold ore and pu re go ld, u n l e ss made by or on b e h a lf of the mone tary a u t h o r i t i e s, a re p r o h i b i t e d. T rave le rs may freely take out up to Rp 65,000 a person in I n d o n e s i an commemo ra t ive gold and s i l v er co ins issued in A u g u st 1970 and up to Rp 130,000 a person in gold and s i l v er coins issued in October 1974; am o u n ts in excess of these l im i ts requ i re the pr ior approval of B a nk I n d o n e s i a. Gold may be imported free of l icen se o n ly by impo r t e rs designated by the G o v e r nm e n t. Su ch impo r ts r e q u i re prior no t i f ica t ion to the M i n i s t ry of I n d u s t ry and are subject to an add i t ional levy of Rp 25 per U S $ 1. INDONESIA Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments February 14. A r egu l a t ion was in t roduced, requ i r ing impo r te rs of K r a ft l i n er paper and corrugated m e d i um to be reg is te red w i t h, and be recognized by, the M in i s t ry of Trade. February 16. PT Dha rma N i aga and PT Kerta N i aga were made sole impo r te rs of all f i n i s h ed products made of iron or s tee l. February 28. PT T j ip ta N i a g a, PT Pantja N i ag a, PT K e r ta N i a ga were made sole impor ters of lub r i c ant for a u t om o b i le e n g i n e s, t r an sm i s s ion s, diesel eng ine s, and two - s t roke eng ines for motor veh ic les and motor boats. March 5. PT Pan t ja N i aga was declared the sole impo r ter of HVS paper, m a n i f o l d, o n i o n s k i n, corona, r e in fo r c ed, d r aw i ng pape r, HVO offset paper, and l i tho pape r. In a d d i t i o n, PT Dha rma N i aga and PT Pan t ja N i a ga were made sole impo r te rs of off- the-road tires and tubes ( for tractors, graders, and ear thmovers). March 7. PT Pan t ja N i a ga and PT T j ip ta N iaga were dec la red sole impo r te rs of l i q u i ds for h y d r a u l ic brakes, l u b r i c a t i ng gears, and o ther o i ls to meet domestic d em a n d. March 11. Impo r ts of food, beverages, and f r u it were re s t r ic ted to two s ta te - t rad ing compan ies —PT Sa r inah and PT K e r ta N i a g a. September 1. A r e g u l a t i on was in t roduced, requ i r ing each impo r t er to produce a taxpayer id en t i f i c a t ion n u m b er as a c o n d i t i on for c l e a r ing impo r t s. December 2. Impo r ts of c h em i c al i n d u s t r i al products, heavy e q u i pm e nt and spare pa r ts, m a ch in e s, m a ch ine e q u i pm e nt and spare pa r t s, e lec t r ic and e lec tr ic indu s t r i al p r o d u c t s, and me tal i n d u s t r i al p roduc ts were restricted to reg is tered impo r te rs approved by the M i n i s t er of Trade. Exports and Export Proceeds March 28. Expo r ts of t e x t i le and t e x t i le products were re s t r ic ted to reg is tered expor ters of tex t i le and t e x t i le p roduc ts recogn ized by the M i n i s t er of Trade. May 18. It was announ c ed th at expor ts of processed wood, i n c l u d i ng p lywood, veneer, and blockboard, cou ld o n ly be conduc ted by registered exporters of processed wood recognized by the M i n i s t er of Trade. June I. State b ank (" red iscoun tab le") rates f or a ll expo rt c r ed i ts were u n i f i ed at 9 pe rcen t. In ad d i t i on, it was a n n o u n c ed that in the f u t u re red i scoun tab le loans w o u ld be provided o n ly on a pos tsh ipment basis. 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Islamic Republic of Iran is the Iranian R ia l, which is pegged to the SDR at Rls 92.300 = SDR 1. Exchange rates for ind iv idual currencies are determined on a daily basis in light of the SDR-rial rate and the SDR rate for such currencies as declared by the Fund. On December 31, 1983 the official rates of Bank Markazi Jomhouri Islami Iran (the central bank) for the U .S. dollar were Rls 87.936 buy ing and Rls 88.386 selling, per US$1. These daily exchange rates are used to calculate import registration fees, import duties, and almost all other transactions, w i th the exception of a preferential rate applied to proceeds from non-oil exports. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in Bank Markazi. All foreign exchange transactions must take place through this Bank or authorized banks. Imports and exports are governed by regulations issued periodically by the Ministry of Commerce after approval by the Council of Ministers. Prescription of Currency Transactions with coun tr ies} having clearing payment agreements w i th the Islamic Republic of Iran are conducted through the terms of those agreements. The un it of account of these agreements is usua l ly the U .S. dollar, the exception being the account w i th the People's Republic of China which is denominated in the Iranian rial. Settlements with member countries of the Asian Clearing Un ion (Bangladesh, Bu rma, India, Nepal, Pakistan ,2 and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transac- tions (other than those relating to petroleum and natural gas and their products) are required to be effected in Asian Monetary Units (AMUs). Final settlement, when necessary, takes place by converting AMUs to an agreed currency. Payments to and from Pakistan and Turkey relating to the exchange of goods and related services (excluding border trade, petroleum, and petroleum prod- ucts) are settled through clearing accounts ma in ta ined by the respective central banks in U .S. dollars. Settlements in respect of petroleum and petroleum products and certain services are made through special accounts held by the central banks of these three countries. A total of 17 banking arrangements have been concluded w i th major Western European banks to establish "Special Accounts" for clearing payments related to the sale of crude oil in 'Bu lga r ia, People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Hung a ry, Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Po land, Roman ia, and U .S .S .R. 2Pak is tan, as a member of a separate agreement w i th the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran, settles its paymen ts through that agreement instead of in the ACU. 264 exchange for purchase of a variety of products and raw materials from Western European suppliers. The pay- ments are partly made in cash but the major part of the proceeds of sales on each side are held in Special Accounts from wh ich payments are made for purchases from the other side. There are three other special arrangements between the Islamic Republic of Iran and the German Democratic Republic, the Syrian Arab Repub l ic, and Yugos lav ia, making use of the Special Accounts system of payment. Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals may maintain rial accounts, as well as accounts in foreign currencies, with authorized banks. The balance of the rial accounts may only be used in the Islamic Republic of Iran. Imports and Import Payments All imports into the Islamic Republic of Iran must be authorized by the ministries and organizations con- cerned, before being registered by authorized banks. Imports from Israel, South Africa, and the United States are prohibited. Some imports are made by government operated import agencies (procurement and distribution centers); ind iv idual importers can also initiate the impor- tation of goods, subject to the prior approval of the procurement and distribution centers. The import policy is re-examined periodically; at the end of each Iranian calendar year (commencing March 21), new export- import regulations, effective for the next year, are published by the M in is try of Commerce. The regulations d is t ingu ish between "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Authorized" goods are those goods whose imports and exports, with due consideration for the regulations, are permitted. "Unauthorized" goods are goods whose exports or imports are temporarily pro- hibited by the Government or are contingent on fulfilling certain requirements (as explained in the relative tariff). "Prohibited" goods applies to those goods whose trans- actions are forbidden by Islamic Sharia or by the law. At the time of registration of imports, a registration fee of 2 percent of the value of the order, calculated on an f .o .b. basis, is collected by authorized banks. At the time of registration of some goods, importers must deposit w i th Bank Markazi, through an authorized bank, 15 percent of the c . i . f. value of the goods. Most food items and certain other commodities are exempt from the registration deposit. The registration deposit is refund- able upon presentation of the customs clearance certifi- cate after the goods have been cleared through customs, or if less than 10 percent of the goods has been transported, of if the order is canceled. Bank Markazi may permit, when necessary, the shifting of imports from the category in wh ich registration deposit is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution required to the exempt category, and vice versa. Most imports are subject to commercial benef it taxes, wh ich are either specific or ad valorem and are imposed in addition to any applicable customs d u t y. Monopoly taxes, if any, are included in the commercial benef it taxes. The authorities specify in the export-import regulations the commercial benefit taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to the customs before cus toms clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon the presentation of shipping documents endorsed by an authorized bank and the permission of the re la t ive procurement and d is tr ibu t ion center. Payments for Invisibles The transfer of premiums for reinsurance is permitted at the daily rate upon the request of the insurance company. Foreign nationals working in the Is lam ic Republic of Iran whose emp loyment has been recognized as necessary by the Government may remit between 45 percent and 65 percent of their net salaries, depending on their specialty. The basic travel allowance for an individual Iranian is up to the equ iva lent of US$500, upon presentation of a valid passport, va l id exit v isa, travel ticket, and evidence of payment of the travel tax. An extra allowance can be provided to the spouse up to the equivalent of US$500 and for two ch i ldren of the passport holder up to the equ iva lent of US$200. Persons needing medical treatment abroad may obtain foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of US$10,000, contingent upon the approval of the High Medical Council of the Ministry of Hea l th; additional foreign exchange can be obtained from Bank Markazi upon the presentation of validated b i l ls for medical expend i tures. The sale of foreign exchange to students s tudy ing abroad varies, according to the cost of l iv ing in the respective country, up to a m ax imum of US$750 a mon th; an additional allowance of 45 percent of the basic a l lowance is provided for married students. In certain cases where this allowance does not cover tu i t ion, un ive r s i ty fees and expenses are separately calculated and pa id. Travelers leaving the Islamic Repub l ic of Iran may take w i th them up to Rls 20,000 in Iranian bank notes. Travelers of foreign nationality may not export more foreign currency than they imported. Import and export of any amount of foreign currency is allowed, provided that such amount was declared at the time of arr iva l, less any amount sold to authorized banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of all commodities are subject to preva i l ing regulations on foreign trade. The commercial benef it tax and customs du ty charged at the t ime of import of raw materials used in manufac tured goods for export are refunded to the exporter after the export has taken place. Bank Markazi offers a preferential rate of exchange for exporters who fu l f i ll their obligations prior to expiry of their export contracts. The foreign currency proceeds from commodity ex- ports must be sold to banks authorized to deal in foreign ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN exchange. Au thor ized banks accept export proceeds no rma l ly in currencies quoted by Bank Ma rkaz i. With the prior approval of Bank Markazi, other currencies may also be accepted. Exports to Israel and South Afr ica are p roh ib i ted. W i th the approval of Bank Markaz i, exporters may import certain goods up to a value equ iv a l ent to the ir exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from export of invisibles, if earned abroad, may be retained in a foreign currency account w i th an authorized b ank. Transfers from such accounts do not requ ire the prior approval of Bank Markaz i. Travelers may b r ing in to the coun try up to Rls 20,000 in I ran ian bank notes. Capital I ran ian na t iona ls may retain the ir foreign exchange ea rn ings, if earned abroad, in domestic foreign currency accounts w i th the authorized banks. Transfers abroad from such accounts do not require the approval of Bank Ma rkaz i. Foreign cap i tal inves tment is supervised by the Organ iza t ion for Inves tment and Economic and Tech- nical Ass is tance, in the M in i s t ry of Economic A f fa i rs and F inance. Repa tr ia t ion of foreign capital is permitted w i th the approval of th is organization and the Bank M a rk a z i. The net short-term fore ign l iab i l i t ies of the commercial banks are subject to a reserve requirement of 27 percen t. Gold No I ran ian gold coins are legal tender. Residents may free ly and w i t h o ut license purchase, ho ld, and sell gold and s i lver in the Is lam ic Repub l ic of I ran. There is a free market for both metals. Authorized banks may import gold and s i lver bu l l ion at the off ic ial rate of exchange w i th prior approval of B ank Ma rkaz i. The import and export of gold for monetary purposes or for international settlements is reserved for Bank Markaz i, wh i le imports for indu s t r i al and dental use are effected by professional o rgan iza t ions at the o f f ic ial rate and subject to supervi- sion by Bank Ma rkaz i; such imports are subject to cus toms d u t y, the commercial benef it levy, and an import registration fee. Passengers m ay, w i thout prior approval of Bank Ma rkaz i, b r ing in jewe lry w i th a value equ iva lent to Rls 5 m i l l ion, which w i ll be recorded in the ir passports so that the same may be exported; imports of personal jewe l ry w i th a va lue exceeding this amount requ ire the approval of Bank Ma rkaz i. The export of I ran ian gold coins for num i sm a t ic purposes requires prior approval by Bank Ma rkaz i. Changes During 1983 Payments for Invisibles May 10. The m a x im um foreign exchange allowance for travel by a va l id passport holder was f ixed at US$500 (w i th an equ iva lent amount for a spouse), and US$200 for each c h i l d. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN July 28. The additional foreign exchange allowance for married Iranians s tudy ing abroad was increased from 35 percent to 45 percent of the basic allowance. September 6. The l im it on outward remittances of foreign exchange by foreign workers in the Islamic Republic of Iran was fixed between 45 percent and 65 percent of their net salaries, depending on their type of work. 266 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Iraq is the I raqi D ina r, w h i ch is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the in te rven t ion cu r rency, at ID 1 = US$3.2169. The o f f ic ial b u y i ng and se l l ing rates on December 31, 1983 were US$3.2249 and US$3.2089, respectively, per ID 1. Buy ing and se l l ing rates for certain other cu r renc ies1 are also o f f i c i a l ly quoted, w i th daily quo ta t ions based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in marke ts abroad. The Central Bank of Iraq under takes t ransac t ions in the listed currencies only w i th authorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control au tho r i ty is vested in the Board of Administration of the Central Bank; th is au thor i ty has been delegated to the Governor and his Depu ty who act on recommendations subm i t ted by an Adv iso ry Comm i t- tee on Foreign Exchange. Certain approval au thor i ty has been delegated to the Department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank and to licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Governor. All branches of the Ra f ida in B a n k, the sole commerc ial bank, are licensed dealers. Import policy is de term ined by the Board for the Regu la t ion of Trade. A foreign exchange budge t, i n c l u d i ng an import program, is established a n n u a l l y, and fore ign exchange allocations under the import program are supervised by the Import Program Comm i t tee. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th foreign coun tr ies no rma l ly mu st be made in any of the listed currencies or by d raw ing on a nonresident account in Iraqi d ina r s, provided that the funds on the nonresident account were ob ta ined o r ig in- ally through credits in any one of the listed currenc ies. There are no bilateral paymen ts arrangements. Paymen ts to and receipts from Israel and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a non res ident account requ i res the approval of the exchange control au tho r i t ie s. Nonresi- dent accounts are d iv ided in to o rd ina ry non res ident accounts, wh ich arise from t ransac t ions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, wh ich arise from t ransac t ions in respect of cap i tal transfers. 'Au s t r i an s ch i l l ing s, Be lg ian f r a n c s, C a n a d i an d o l l a r s, D a n i sh kroner, deu tsche ma rk, French f r a n c s, I t a l i an l i r e, Japane se y e n, Ne ther lands g u i l d e r s, No rw eg i an k r o n e r, pounds s t e r l i n g, Sw ed i sh kroner, and Swiss f ranc s. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commod i t ies no rm a l ly are hand led by the socialized sector. All pr iva te imports are subject to licenses, except imports of materials cons t i tu t ing basic e lemen ts for deve lopment projects bene f i t ing from the Law for Ma jor Development Projects, No. 157 of 1973. In p r in c ip l e, licenses are issued in accordance w i th an a n n u al import program. Impor ts of all goods from Israel and South A f r i ca are p roh ib i ted. Imports of some commod i t ies on a protection l i st are, in p r inc ip le, p roh ib i ted from a ll sources. To f inance the Export Sub s idy Fund, a tax of 0.5 per- cent is lev ied on impor ts of cap i tal goods and a tax of 0.75 percent on impor ts of consumer goods. All imports subject to import d u ty are also subject to a customs surcharge of 15 percent of the app l icab le cus toms du ty. The R a f i d a in Bank makes exchange ava i lab le upon presen ta t ion of the exchange control copy of the import l icense, except in some ins tances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles A ll p aym en ts for inv i s ib les requ ire perm iss ion. Ex- change is u s u a l ly granted for educa t ional and medical expenses abroad, f re ight on exports effected on a c. & f. bas is, insu rance p r em i um s, roya l t ie s, e tc. Exchange is not gran ted to me rchan ts for the insu rance abroad of their imports or exports. The R a f i d a in B a nk is pe rm i t ted, subject to the approval of the Cen t ral B a n k, to transfer up to 50 percent of a n n u al income accrued to Arab and fore ign na t iona ls res ident in I raq, un le ss the pa r t icu lar contract ex tends t h is l im it up to 75 percent for old contracts or 60 percent for new contracts. Certain non res ident p r iva te sector companies that have contracts w i th pub l ic in s t i tu t ions in Iraq are permitted to transfer the amoun ts provided for in those contracts; those not employed u n d er contracts may t ran s fer abroad a mon th ly amount of ID 58 a person. The regu la t ions p rov ide, in p r i n c i p l e, for basic ex- change a l lowances for tou r ist travel abroad; but such travel has not been pe rm i t ted since J u ly 1982. The basic exchange a l lowance for tou r i st travel is ID 400 a t r ip for each person 18 years of age or over (ID 200 for persons und er 18) for t r ips to Arab coun t r i e s, soc ia l ist coun tr ies, the I s lam ic R epub l ic of I r an, and Tu rk ey, irrespective of the leng th of s tay; for subsequent tr ips in the same ca lendar year t h is a l lowance may be reduced to 50 per- cent of the basic a l lowance for one t r ip. For tou r ist travel to other coun t r ie s, the basic a l lowance is ID 750 a trip for each person 18 years of age (ID 300 for persons under 18 years), irrespective of the leng th of s tay, and 50 percent of the basic a l loca t ion for subsequent trips in the same ca lendar year. 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ The individual exchange allowance for official mis- sions abroad is ID 45-55 a day for Group A countries (Western European and Arab countries) for periods of more than 10 days and ID 60-75 a day for less than 10 days, and ID 30-^0 a day for Group B countries (socialist countries, Arab countries, Turkey, and Cyp- rus) for periods of more than 10 days and ID 40—50 a day for less than 10 days. Foreign exchange allocations for Iraqi students abroad are as follows: in addition to actual tuition costs, for each academic year, ID 1,800 for students in the United States, ID 1,600 for the United Kingdom, ID 1,450 for the Netherlands, ID 1,200 for Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, and ID 900 for other Arab countries; supplementary allowances of ID 300 a year to students in Western Europe, ID 250 for those in Arab countries, and ID 100-300 for those in the U .S .S .R. are also permitted. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance of that allowance in traveler's checks. Residents on pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to transfer the equivalent of ID 250. Half of this allowance is permitted for persons under 18 years. Exchange allowances for pilgrimage are unrelated to other travel- ing allowances during the year. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South A f r i c a^ and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The Board for the Regulation of Trade has authority to prohibit the export of any commodity when supply fa l ls short of domestic demand. The export of certain items is reserved for the General Organization for Exports. All other exports are licensed free ly. Exporters generally must undertake to repatriate their foreign exchange proceeds through the Rafidain Bank and to surrender them within six months after shipment. Under an export subsidy fund established in 1969 for the purpose of assisting non-oil exports, f inanc ial sup- port may be provided for up to 25 percent of the value of the eligible exports. The scheme was intended to introduce Iraqi goods abroad, whether from the private or public sector, and to improve the ir competitive position by providing temporary assistance wh i le mar- kets for the commodities were established. An export item is ineligible for the subsidy if its import content exceeds 40 percent. All applications for assistance are reviewed by a special committee headed by the Chair- man of the Export Organization w i th in the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade. The subsidy fund continues to be financed with taxes on imports, but there are currently no exports receiving subsidies under the scheme as all exports are considered to be viable w i thout subs idy assistance. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts in excess of ID 50 from invisibles must be surrendered w i th in three mon ths to a 268 licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign ex- change, inc lud ing currency notes (other than Israel currency), in un l im i ted amoun ts, provided that the funds are declared on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. Travelers may bring in ID 25 in Iraqi notes, and Arab nationals of Gulf countries may bring in ID 100 in such notes. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel or South Afr ica, but they must deposit it with the Ra f ida in Bank; such deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. Under Resolution No. 1646 of the Revolutionary Command Council, enacted in November 1980, the following regulations on investments are applied: (a) no foreign (defined as non- Arab) participation is allowed in the capital of private sector companies; (b) citizens of Arab states may participate w i th Iraqis in the capital of industrial projects and commercial companies; (c) shares of foreigners (other than nationals of Arab states) participating in the capital of indus tr ial projects and commercial companies in Iraq must be phased out w i th in a period of one year from the introduction of this Resolution. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval. Special facilities allow Arab investors to bring in convertible currency; similar facilities permit Iraqi nationals abroad to open accounts at the Ra f ida in Bank with foreign currencies that are freely transferable abroad. Under the Industrial Investment Regulation Law for private and mixed sectors (No. 115 of 1982), certain incentives and guarantees are granted to approved investments of domestic or Arab capital in Iraq. In addition, Arab capital invested in Iraq is accorded preferential treatment in the agricultural and tourist sectors. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Iraq in any form other than gold bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form require the approval of the Central Bank. Iraqi citizens may bring in w i th them gold for personal use up to 250 grams of worked gold free of tax. Imports of worked gold in excess of 250 grams are subject to a du ty of 35 percent, and all gold transactions are required to be declared on a foreign exchange form at the point of en t ry. Iraqi residents may take out with them worked gold not exceeding 100 grams a person, subject to declaration; such gold should be brought back on return to the coun try. Nonresident Iraqis are allowed to take out w i th them worked gold which they have already brought w i th them for personal use when they entered Iraq. Foreigners can also bring into the country worked gold up to 250 grams a person. Export of gold for commerc ial purposes is not permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes During 1983 Payments for Invisibles September 1. The amount of foreign exchange which residents on pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia were permitted to take out was limited to the equ iva lent of ID 250 a person. In addition, the ind iv idual exchange allowance for official missions abroad was increased to ID 45-55 a day for Group A countries for periods of more than 10 d^s and ID 6 °-75 a Aa* for less than 10 days' and 1D 30^ ° a day for GrouP B countries for periods of more than 10 days and ID 4 °-50 for less than 10 days- Gold July 1. Changes were made in regulations affec t ing transactions in gold. IRAQ 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position on December 3 J, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ireland is the Irish Pound. Ireland participates w i th Be lg ium, Denmark, France, the Fed- eral Republic of Germany, I ta ly, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and in terven t ion mech- anism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance w i th this agreement, Ireland ma in ta ins the spot exchange rates between the Irish pound and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the I ta l ian l ira, 6 per- cent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Un i ts (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Central Bank of Ireland stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in un l im i t ed amoun ts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1983 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Italian lire 100 Netherlands guilders Ir ish Pounds Upper l im it Lower l im it 1.6530 9 .1168 33.1015 10.7964 0.0549015 29.3832 1.5803 8.7157 31.6455 10.3214 0.0486968 28.0904 The participants in the EMS do not ma in ta in exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed limits. On Decem- ber 31, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were US$1.1342 and US$1 .1357, respec- tively, per I r£ l. There are no taxes or subs id ies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On February 15, 1961, Ireland forma l ly accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the authority for approving normal paymen ts is delegated to commercial banks authorized for th is purpose (authorized banks). Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Indus t ry, Trade, Commerce, and Tourism if the goods are of an industrial nature or by the Department of Agr icu l ture if they are agricultural in character; import licenses are also issued by the Department of Fisheries and Forestry and in some cases by the Department of Health or the Department of Justice. Import licensing is not used for 270 exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency The adm in i s t ra t ion of Irish exchange control is based on the d i s t in c t ion be tween en t i t ies that are permanently resident in Ireland and nonresidents, that is, residents of other coun tr ies. The la t ter comprises two categories: (1) residents of EC member countries and (2) residents of all other countries. Au thor ized payments may be made in Irish pounds or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports mu st be received in foreign currency or in Irish pounds from an Ex ternal Accoun t. Nonresident Accounts Accoun ts in I r i sh pounds of nonresidents are desig- nated Ex te rnal Accoun ts. All credits in excess of Ir£250,000 to Ex ternal Accoun ts held by nonbanks with au thor ized banks requ i re specific approval by the Central Bank (or Ir£50,000 when such accounts are held with f in an c i al in s t i tu t ions other than authorized banks), ex- cept where the credit is in respect of imports into Ireland. There are also l im i ts on m ax imum balances in External Accoun ts of non res ident banks; these may be maintained w i thout prior approval of the Central Bank. External Accoun ts may be credited w i th payments that are eligible for t rans fer abroad under a general or specific exchange control approva l, w i th transfers from other External Accounts, paymen ts for any foreign currencies pur- chased from account holders, the proceeds of Irish currency notes in denom ina t ions not exceeding Ir£20, paymen ts from w i t h in the coun try up to Ir£100 in value, and interest payable on the accounts; they may be debited for transfers to residents, transfers to other External Accoun ts, the cost of any foreign currency sold to account holders, the transfer of any part of account balances to account holders, and bank charges, if applicable. Au thor ized banks may operate foreign currency ac- counts in the names of nonresidents in any foreign currency; these accounts are subject to the same require- ments as External Accounts. Authorized banks may also operate foreign currency accounts in the names of residents under specific central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain goods into Ireland is subject to f ive types of adm in is t ra t ive control, as follows: Quantitative Restriction. Special quota restrictions apply to (1) bicycle tires from countries other than member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and Japan; (2) certain textile products o r ig ina t ing in the state-trading coun- tries; (3) automobile tires from the German Democratic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Republic; (4) footwear from Czechoslovakia and Taiwan;f (5) certain sacks and bags other than those of wool, cotton, and man-made fibers (ma in ly ju te bags originating in Hong Kong, Ind ia, Japan, Macao, Ma lay- sia, Pakistan, Ta iwan ,f the state-trading countries, and Yugoslavia); (6) certain ceramic products originating in the People's Republic of Ch ina; and (7) certain copper tubes originating in Spain. Autonomous import restric- tions have been imposed by the EC on certain textiles originating in Ta iwan .f Voluntary Restraint. The EC has negotiated bilateral restraint agreements w i th various supp ly ing countries on trade in textiles under wh ich import quotas are set each year for different products. Surveillance. Ireland operates a system of su rve i l- lance on certain imports of the following: live plants or floricultural products, iron and steel products, clothing and textiles, footwear, tw ine, cordage, motorcar types, copper tubes, and specified ceramic products. National Public Policy. For reasons of na t ional pol- icy, imports of certain goods ( e . g ., specified drugs, explosives, and firearms and ammun i t ion) are prohibited without special licenses. Prior Permission. Under this type of control, prior permission of the Central Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods if they are not to be used in Ireland, or are to be delivered more than nine mon ths after the date of the order, or if payment is not being made in an approved manner. Goods not for use in Ireland mus t, in general, be paid for w i th borrowed foreign currency. Special import restrictions apply in regard to motor vehicles. Imports from non-EC countries of products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC may be subject to various charges such as levies and mone- tary compensatory amounts under that policy and to duties under the common customs t a r i f f. For permitted imports, permission to make payments to nonresidents is granted automatically. Au tho r i ty to make payments is delegated to authorized dealers. Exchange control forms are required for import payments exceeding Ir£10,000. Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents require approval. Approval to make payments for most invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks; for other inv is ib les, it is given by the Central Bank. For tourist travel there is a basic allowance for residents of Ireland of Ir£600 a person for each t r ip, or when the trip exceeds two mon ths, Ir£2,000. For business travel, up to Ir£3,000 at a rate of Ir£100 a day is allowed for each journey. L im i ts are also established for allowances for education and other purposes. Applica- tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 52. IRELAND tions for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unau thor ized export of capital is involved. Not more than Ir£500 of an allowance of foreign currency may be issued in the form of currency notes. Residents may also take w i th them up to Ir£100 in Irish currency notes. Nonresidents may take w i th them any foreign currency notes that they brought into Ireland. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. Exporters of goods must obtain payment for the goods w i th in six months of sh ipmen t, if their value exceeds Ir£100. When payment is received in foreign currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding Ir£l0,000 and must be presented to Irish customs at the point of exportation. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be repatriated without delay, and if foreign currencies are received they must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer or permission for the ir retention must be obtained. Any foreign currency held by a person after his return from a tr ip abroad may be retained for subsequent travel purposes for three months from the date he received the exchange. There are no l im i ta t ions on the import of Irish or foreign bank notes, but prior central bank approval must be obtained to credit Irish bank notes in denomina- t ions exceeding Ir£20 to External Accoun ts. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all transfers of capital to nonresidents. Authority to make certain paymen ts has been delegated to authorized dealers; other paymen ts require central bank approval. The normal allowance ava i lab le to Irish residents on emigration is Ir£40,000 for each f am i l y. When the total value of an emigrant's assets exceed Ir£40,000, the transfer of the excess amount is restricted for a period of four years from the em ig ran t 's redesignation as a nonresident, that is, from the date of departure from Ireland; however, du r ing th is four-year period, income on restricted assets may be transferred abroad. After the four-year period, the balance of restricted assets may be freely exported w i thout l im i t. For Irish residents tak ing up permanent residence in an EC country, including those taking up emp loymen t, applications to transfer Irish assets to the new coun try of residence in excess of the normal allowances are considered. There are no restrictions on the inf low of capital, but inward direct investment requires exchange control approval. Purchases of unquoted Irish securities by nonresidents require exchange control approval, and the purchase of nonurban land by foreign nationals in some cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND The Central Bank considers applications by Irish residents for permission to purchase property for per- sonal use in a member country of the EC with foreign currency purchased at the official rate of exchange. The acquisition of personal property outside the EC may be financed only by foreign currency loans, which are approved by the Central Bank on application, subject to a limit of Ir£20,000 a property and one property for each family un i t. Borrowings may be repaid w i th official foreign exchange in equal annual installments over a period of not less than five years. The entire foreign currency proceeds from the sale of property outside Ireland purchased for personal use of a resident must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Transactions in foreign currency securities are con- trolled to ensure that, in general, capital is not trans- ferred outside Ireland. All such transactions must be routed through an approved agent (an Irish bank, stockbroker, or solicitor). Resident holdings of all foreign currency securities may be sold only to nonresi- dents. Where such securities are sold, the proceeds must either be reinvested in foreign securities or be offered for sale to an authorized dealer within three months. During that three-month period, in the absence of the specific approval of the Central Bank, the proceeds must be held under the control of an approved agent. Purchases of foreign currency securities, apart from switches referred to above, are prohibited. The Central Bank may, however, approve applications by authorized insurers and pension funds for the export of a limited amount of funds at the current rate of exchange for investment in foreign currency securities. Foreign currency borrowing by institutional investors and professional portfolio managers for portfolio investment abroad may also be approved in some cases. The Central Bank will grant permission for investment at the current rate of exchange in securities issued by the EC, the European Investment Bank, the European Coal and Steel Community, and the European Atomic Energy Commun i ty. Such permission is granted only on an undertaking by the intending buyer that the securities will not be resold for at least one year from the date of purchase authorization; a requirement that applies also to purchases made from the sale or maturity proceeds of existing holdings. In line with this requirement, all sales of existing holdings of EC securi- ties are subject to exchange control approval. Direct investment abroad requires prior approval and may normally be financed by borrowing foreign cur- rency; in certain cases the use of official exchange may be approved, depending on the merits of the project. Use of official exchange is allowed, however, for all ap- proved new direct investments by Irish residents in EC member countries. Purchases by nonresidents of Irish registered securities must be funded w i th foreign currency or Irish pounds from an External Account; purchases in excess of Ir£100,000 must be notified to the Central Bank. 272 Remittances of cash gifts or personal loans are normally permitted up to Ir£ 1,500 a donor a calendar year. Applications by Irish residents to make cash gifts to EC residents, in excess of the normal allowance, are considered. Residents require prior exchange control approval (1) to accept loans from nonresidents, irrespective of the currency of such loans, and (2) to accept loans in foreign currency from any source; such applications are consid- ered on their merits and, except as regards borrowing for the acquisition of property for personal use, on the benefit likely to accrue to the economy. Public sector borrowing from nonresidents is undertaken following consultation with the Central Bank. Lending of Irish currency to nonresidents is not normally permitted, except to the extent that overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of diplomatic and consular missions in Ireland. Provided that the company is not a channel for portfolio investment, a subsidiary or branch of a company controlled directly by interests in EC countries may obtain from Irish banks, subject to exchange control approval, all the finance it requires for its operation in Ireland. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coin in Ireland. Dealings in gold bullion are restricted, and no dealings take place in Ireland. Al- though there are no import restrictions, residents require specific exchange control permission to purchase gold coin or bu l l ion outside Ireland. Specific exchange control permission also is required for the export of gold coin and bu l l ion outside Ireland. Specific permission to buy or export gold coin or bullion normally is given only for bona fide num isma t ic or industrial purposes, respec- t ive ly. Residents of Ireland are not permitted to hold gold abroad. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement January 13. The following measures were adopted w i th a view to strengthening central bank surveillance of forward exchange transactions in the Irish pound: (a) m in imum values of forward transactions beyond which exchange control approval was required were reduced; (b) the max imum period from the commence- ment of exposure to risk to the point when importers or exporters could sell or buy Irish pounds forward was shortened from 30 days to 15 days; and (c) the documen- tation requirements for forward exchange transactions were tightened. March 21. Following the realignment of exchange rates w i th in the European Monetary System (EMS), the intervention rates for the Irish pound in terms of the Belgian and Luxembourg francs, the Danish krone, the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution deutsche mark, the French franc, the Netherlands gu i l- der, and the Italian lira were adjusted as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Old limits Upper Lower Irish Pounds New l im i ts Upper Lower 1.57155 1.50241 8.5830 8.2055 100 Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 100 Italian lire 100 Nether- lands guilders 27.3975 26 .1915 30.2845 28.9520 10.6855 10.2155 1.6530 1.5803 9 .1168 8 .7157 33.1015 31.6455 10.7964 10.3214 0.054338 0.048197 0.0549015 0.0486968 29.3832 28.0904 The new central rate for the Irish pound in terms of the ECU was fixed at ECU 1 - Ir£ 0.717050. IRELAND May 17. The Ministers and central bank governors of EC member countries decided to a t tr ibu te to the pound sterling a na t ional ECU central rate based on market exchange rates of Friday, May 13, 1983. This resulted in changes in the ECU central rates of all currencies participating in the EMS exchange rate arrangement. However, the bilateral central rates and upper and lower intervention l im i ts between these currencies remained unchanged. The new central rate for the Irish pound in terms of ECU was f ixed at ECU 1 = Ir£0.725690. Capital March 24. A regulation was introduced making ex- change control au thor iza t ion for the purchase of securi- ties issued by o f f ic ial EC ins t i tu t ions conditional on an unde r tak ing that such acquisitions would not be resold for at least one year from the date of purchase authoriza- t ion. Application of th is requirement was extended to purchases made from the sale or maturity proceeds of ex is t ing holdings; to this effec t, all sales of existing ho ld ings of EC securities were made subject to exchange control approval. 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Israel is the Shekel. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transac- tions; they intervene when necessary in order to smooth out fluctuations in rates and to maintain orderly condi- tions in the market. Authorized banks are permitted to deal in foreign exchange with residents and with their correspondents in foreign markets. At the end of the morning trading session, the Bank of Israel publishes an average of the quotations of the day as a representative rate. On December 31, 1983 the representative rate for the U .S. dollar was IS 107.77 per US$1. A levy of 1 per- cent of transaction value is imposed on purchases of foreign exchange by the public, including those involv- ing PATAM accounts (see below). Administration of Control Exchange control is the responsibility of the Control- ler of Foreign Exchange and is administered by the Bank of Israel, in cooperation w i th other government agen- cies, and is carried out through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the cur- rency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either in foreign currency accounts or in local currency accounts. The opening of nonresident foreign currency accounts does not require prior approval. The holder may freely effect transfers from his foreign currency account. He may also convert funds held on the account into local currency at the market rate of exchange. There are no restrictions on the opening by a nonresi- dent of a local currency account; such funds may be used locally in permitted transactions, including transfers between nonresidents. Nonresident holders of local currency may convert at the market rate of exchange up to US$3,000 for each visit to Israel, which may be transferred abroad, together w i th an amount of local currency not exceeding IS 500. This is additional to the repurchase of foreign currency brought in by the nonresi- dent traveler for his current visit. The sales proceeds of real estate and other investments may be transferred in their entirety if the original investment was made through an authorized dealer w i th foreign currency or State of Israel Development Loan bonds. held by exporters and recent immigrants to Israel or (2) PATAM-Restitution accounts which may only be held by recipients of restitution payments and certain disability pensions. In addition, all residents may maintain PATAM accounts which are shekel, time, or deposit accounts denominated in foreign currency. In general, transac- tions on such accounts must pass through shekel as a unit of account. Banks are required to redeposit 100 percent of PATAM demand and time deposits w i th the Bank of Israel. PATAM-Restitution accounts also are demand or time deposit accounts in convertible currencies with autho- rized banks, wh ich must redeposit all of these foreign currency funds w i th the Bank of Israel. Funds deposited in restitution accounts are free of taxation. PATAM- Restitution accounts are permitted to be used up to a limit of US$1,800 for payment of expenses in connec- tion w i th travel and subsistence abroad in excess of the basic travel exchange allocation. Holders of PATAM- Restitution accounts may resell securities bought with funds in such accounts for foreign currency and may deposit the proceeds in a PATAM-Restitution account. Residents who are not holders of PATAM-Restitution accounts may deposit the foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of foreign securities in PATAM accounts. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited from all sources. With some exceptions, imports are free of licensing and administrative or quan t i ta t ive restrictions. Some imports on a Restricted List are subject to approval; this list includes coffee, specified items of machinery, some meat, f ish, and dairy products, sugar, certain textiles, explosives and inf lammab les, tobacco, and nonalcoholic beverages. Soybeans are imported exclusively by or for account of the Government. Exchange to pay for authorized imports is granted automatically by the banks upon presentation of proof of the import transaction. A value-added tax is levied on almost all imported and domestically produced goods, other than capital goods and travel tickets. A 2 percent additional du ty, scheduled to be eliminated on April 1, 1984, is levied on all imports subject to the value-added tax. Beginning June 1983, specified imports are subject to a one-year noninterest-bearing deposit requirement of 15 percent of the value of imports, including customs du ty, purchase tax, and other charges (w i th the exception of the value- added tax ). Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may maintain foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Israel in either (1) nonresident deposit accounts which may, subject to conditions, be Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments abroad on account of invis- ibles is provided automatically upon proof of the nature of the transaction. The exchange allowance for tourist 274 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution travel is the equivalent of US$3,0001 a traveler for each journey, of which up to US$500 may be in bank notes and the balance in traveler's or bank checks. Foreign currency drawings by means of credit cards are included in this allowance. Resident travelers may take out part or all of the travel allowance in Israel bank notes. Israeli residents traveling abroad are subject on departure to a travel tax of IS 2,100 (or US$50) a person a jou rney .2 Nonresident travelers leaving Israel are permitted to repurchase through authorized dealers foreign currency up to US$3,000 and may also take out up to IS 500 in Israel bank notes. This is in addition to the repurchase of foreign currency brought in by the nonresident traveler during his current visit. Commercial banks are autho- rized to sell abroad unlimited amounts of Israel currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses, although for some commodities export licensing is retained for quality control. Export proceeds, which may be received in foreign currencies only, must be surrendered or held in a PAT AM account. Exporters may retain in a bank deposit abroad or in a special exporter account in Israel an amount equivalent to 10 percent of their turnover in the preceding year. For inputs directly imported by an exporter there is a system of rebates of customs duties, wharf charges, and other related charges. The Israel Foreign Trade Risks Insurance Company provides an export insurance facility to cover unfavorable move- ments in domestic currency costs as measured by movements in the weighted average rate of the shekel against five major currencies, name ly, the U .S. dollar, pound sterling, Netherlands guilder, French f ranc, and the deutsche mark. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles mus t, in general, be surrendered or kept in foreign exchange in PAT AM accounts. Any resident is free to accept specified convertible currencies from tourists in payment for customary tourist services and commodities other than commercial exports, securities, and real estate. For 20 years after entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from the requirement to surrender their foreign exchange to authorized dealers, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad.3 There are no limits on the amounts of Israel bank notes or foreign currency that may be brought in by travelers. 'The exchange allowance for tourist travel was reduced to the equivalent of US$2,000 a traveler for each journey as part of the exchange measures introduced on January 17, 1984. 2Beginning March 25, 1984 the travel tax has been raised to IS 14,510 (or US$100), to be adjusted on a monthly basis. 3Permission for Israeli residents to hold bank accounts abroad was suspended as part of the exchange measures introduced on January 17, 1984. ISRAEL Capital Foreign exchange brought into Israel for the purpose of investment in the form of loan and equity capital may, subject to approval, be granted preferential treatment in accordance w i th the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investment, wh ich grants a limited w i thho ld ing tax of 25 percent on income resulting from these in- vestments. Approved investments (loan and equ i ty) are granted exemption from the compulsory deposit require- ment. Approvals granted under the law are classified as "approved enterprises," "approved investments," or "ap- proved loans." Approved enterprise status is granted to enterprises in selected fields of production that are (1) in the fields of indus try, tour ism, transportation, and agriculture; (2) established in priority areas; or (3) export oriented or in the field of import substitution in some specific lines of production. Approved investment or approved loan status may be granted to any enterprise in the above-mentioned sectors; however, loans may only be shareholders' loans. The period of the loan should not be less than seven years and the rate of interest not more than 8 percent. Certain restrictions apply to borrowing in foreign currency by residents. Since November 1979 a freeze has been in effect on all such direct foreign borrowing by nonbank residents. Suppliers' credits and loans w i th maturities of at least 30 months are exempt from the freeze as well as the deposit requirement. Nonbank residents may, however, contract loans in foreign cur- rencies from resident banks subject to an interest surcharge of 1 percent. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liquidation of foreign assets are treated in the same way as other proceeds in foreign currency. Residents are not normally permitted to retain abroad real estate, money, securities, or the income from these assets, although residents may invest in foreign securities through local banks .4 Resi- dent exporters and airline and shipping companies may ma in ta in foreign bank accounts. In addition, residents traveling abroad may maintain limited sums in foreign accounts (see footnote 3). New immigrants may retain their foreign assets for 20 years. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents other than new immigrants are generally not permitted. Nonresidents are permitted to purchase in Israel real estate, shares, and debentures. In order to repatriate the principal or profits on these investments, proof is required by an authorized dealer that they were pur- chased with foreign currency through an authorized dealer. Direct loans in any form from Israeli residents to nonresidents are subject to licensing. Gold Under the regulations concerning the purchase, sale, and holding of gold, there are four categories of gold for 4The exchange measures introduced on Janua ry 17, 1984 inc luded a suspension of the regu la t ion perm i t t ing Israeli residents to buy foreign securities abroad, w i th the exception of specified types of Israeli f irms' securities issued abroad w i th the approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL various purposes, as follows: (1) Bu l l ion for industry may be imported by an importer holding an import license. (2) Bullion for investment, or certificates con- ferring a right to gold bu l l ion, may be bought or sold only through authorized dealers and must be held in a gold custody account w i th an authorized dealer.5 (3) The following bullion coins are at present included in a list of gold coins for investment (see footnote 4): (a) Kruger- rands of South Africa; (b) 50 dollar Maple Leafs of Canada; (c) 50 pesos of Mexico; (d) 100 corona and 4 dukat coins of Austria; (e) sovereigns of Great Br i ta in; (f) 10 dollar and 20 dollar Liberty coins of the Un i ted States; and (g) 20 franc napoleon coins of France. These coins may be bought or sold through authorized dealers and must be held in a gold custody account w i th an authorized dealer. (4) Other gold coins and medallions may be bough t, sold, or held by an Israeli resident without restriction. These coins may be imported and exported in the same manner as other goods. Imports of gold included in the above categories are subject to a value-added tax of 15 percent. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement In addition to small adjustments of the exchange rate during the year, the shekel was depreciated by 7 percent and 19 percent against the U .S. dollar on August 10, 1983 and October 11, 1983, respectively. April 6. A levy of 1 percent of transaction va lue was imposed on purchases of foreign exchange by the pub l ic, including those invo lv ing PATAM accounts. Imports and Import Payments January 1. In line w i th the 1975 agreement w i th the EC, customs duties on imports of industrial products from the Commun i ty were reduced by 10 percent, 5The exchange measures introduced on Janua ry 17, 1984 inc luded suspension of the regu la t ion pe rm i t t ing acqu is i t ion of gold for inves tment purposes by residents. br ing ing the total reduction since the conclusion of the agreement to 50 percent. March 3. Imports of tomatoes, glucose, certain preserved vegetables and f ru i t, and vegetable juices were added to the list of imports subject to the licensing requirement. April 6. The va l id i ty period of the temporary import levy introduced on June 15, 1982 was extended to March 31, 1984, and the levy was reduced from 3 percent to 2 percent. May 1. Imports of nonalcoholic beverages were added to the list of imports subject to licensing. June 1. Specified imports equivalent to about 12 per- cent of total annual imports were made subject to a one- year non in teres t-bear ing deposit requirement of 15 per- cent of the va lue of imports, inc lud ing customs du ty, purchase tax, and other charges (w i th the exception of the value-added tax ). The deposit requirement was scheduled to be in effect for a period of six months. August 9. A bank ing agreement was signed with Hungary, providing for the opening of reciprocal lines of credit equ iva lent to US$30 m i l l ion. Payments for Invisibles April 1. A travel tax, collected at the rate of IS 2,100 (or US$50) a person on departure for each journey, was imposed on Israeli citizens traveling abroad; the amount was to be adjusted for movements in the consumer price index. Exports and Export Proceeds April 1. A d i f fe rent prem ium under the exchange rate insurance scheme was introduced for exports to Europe, raising the number of d i f fe ren t ial prem iums to three, one each for exports to North Amer ica, Europe, and the rest of the world. Capital November 1. Purchases of foreign currency by residents, previously restricted by amount (up to US$3,000) but not by categories of buyers, were limited to residents traveling abroad. 276 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Italy is the Italian Lira. Italy partici- pates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the exchange rate and intervention mech- anism of the European Monetary System (EMS). In accordance with this agreement, Italy maintains spot exchange rates between the Italian lira and the currencies of the other participants w i th in margins of 6 percent above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Bank of Italy (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in un l im i ted amounts at specified intervention rates. The participants in the EMS are not maintaining the exchange rates for other curren- cies within fixed limits. However, in order to ensure a proper functioning of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out f luc tua t ions in exchange rates, the intervention currencies being each other's and the U .S. dollar. Official rates for 18 foreign currencies1 are quoted daily on the basis of market rates.2 On December 31, 1983 the rate for the U .S. dollar was Lit 1,655.0 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. For outward transfers of resident-owned capital a deposit in lire of 50 percent must be lodged w i th the Bank of Italy. Outward direct investment and certain types of portfolio investment are, however, normally exempt from the deposit requirement. The monetary authorities do not, in principle, inter- vene in the forward exchange market; forward premiums and discounts are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currency, and in forward exchange transactions up to 360 days in major convert- ible and externally convertible currencies .3 Forward cover is freely permitted only for commercial trans- actions; cover in respect of f inanc ial transactions re- quires authorization. Italy formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the I ta l ian Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi, or UIC). 'Currencies o f f ic ia l ly quoted are Aus t r ian s ch i l l ing s, Be lg ian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, the ECU, F inn i sh markkaa, French francs, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds s te r l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U .S. do l lars. 2The official rate is the average of the "f ix ing" quotations of the foreign exchange markets in M i lan and Rome. 3These currencies are referred to in the Italian regulations as the conto valutario currencies. All sales and purchases of exchange must be effected through banks authorized for th is purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the M in is try of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Certain imports and exports require the prior visa of the Na t ional Foreign Trade Ins t i tu te. Issues of securities by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are subject in addition to the rules governing the issu ing of Italian securities in I ta ly. Payments to and from the Republic of San Marino or Vatican City are made in internal lire and therefore are not subject to exchange control. The net external position of the banks is subject to control by the U IC. This control encompasses (1) the net foreign position in foreign currencies and lire together; and (2) the overall pos i t ion, spot and forward combined, in all foreign currencies; a balanced foreign currency position on a da i ly basis is required separately in (a) U .S. dollars, (b) EC currencies and ECUs, and (c) all other conto valutario currencies combined. Authorized banks are not subject to any ce i l ing on the ir net foreign liability position but are prohibited from maintaining a net foreign asset position; in addition, outstanding net forward transactions against lire are subject to a ceiling set ind iv idua l ly for each bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th foreign countries must normally be made in convertible currencies or in lire on Foreign Accounts. Nonresident Accounts The ma in types of accounts in Italian lire wh ich nonresidents are allowed to ma in ta in w i th authorized banks are Foreign Accounts and Capital Accoun ts .4 The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain investments, is described below. Foreign Accounts may be credited w i th transfers from other Foreign Accounts, from Capital Accounts, and from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, w i th lire from authorized current and capital payments, and with the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies. They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies in the ordinary marke t, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account for paymen ts to residents of Italy for current and capital transactions, and for draw ings in cash by the holder of the account or his nominee. 4I t a l i ans l i v i ng or wo rk ing abroad as we ll as "border-area" residents are permitted to m a i n t a in w i th I ta l ian banks Em igran ts' Foreign Currency Accounts denom ina ted in conto valutario currencies. They may be credited w i th remittances ( inc lud ing bank notes) sent directly to the bank from abroad (up to 80 percent of the ho lde r 's wage or salary earnings) and w i th interest on the balance; they may be debited freely for conversion into l ire, for w i thd r aw a ls in foreign bank notes, and for transfers abroad (except for accounts held by "border-area" res iden ts). These accounts may also be held by I ta l ian representatives abroad and by I ta l ian staff employed by in terna t ional organ iza t ions. 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Capital Accounts may be credited w i th transfers from Foreign Accounts, from Special Accounts, and from other Capital Accounts and w i th the proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investments in Italy not made under the provisions of Law No. 211 or Law No. 43 (see below). Capital Accounts may be debited for transfers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts and for the purchase of investments not made under Law No. 43, including purchases of personal property or real estate in Italy. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in Italy convertible currencies or externally convertible European currencies in accordance w i th the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue of convertible currencies sold in Italy, w i th transfers from Foreign Accoun ts, or from other Special Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of investments that have been made in accordance w i th Law No. 43. They may be debited for purchases of the same currency that was originally sold and for invest- ments in Italy, and balances may be transferred to Foreign Accounts, Capital Accounts, or any other Special Account. Nonresidents may also ma in ta in "foreign accounts in foreign exchange" to wh ich may be credited foreign exchange receipts from abroad, transfers from other "foreign accounts in foreign exchange," paymen ts from residents for authorized transactions and, in approved cases, receipts from the sale of assets. Imports and Import Payments Imports are governed by a M in is ter ial Decree of May 6, 1976. The import regulations vary with the country of origin. Countries are grouped in three major areas: Zone A, wh ich is subdivided into subzones A /1 (EC countries, Guadeloupe, French Gu iana, Ma r t in ique, and Reun ion ), A/2 (overseas countries and territories, member countries of the European Free Trade Associa- tion, and other countries associated w i th the EC), and A/3 (third countries); Zone B, wh ich comprises member countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assis- tance (CMEA), A lban ia, the People's Repub l ic of China, and the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea; and Zone C (Japan). The import control procedures distinguish between goods that may be freely imported without quan t i ta t ive restriction and goods that require a special license. Import liberalization is v i r tua l ly com- plete for subzones A /1 and A /2, wh i le very few quantitative restrictions remain for subzone A/3. Many types of goods from Zones B and C are heav i ly restricted. For imports from countries in Zone B, as well as Egypt and Yugoslavia, the country of origin must also be the country of shipment. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Common EC regu la t ions 278 are also applied to impor ts from non-EC countries of most other agr icu l tural and livestock products. For imports not exceed ing Lit 5 m i l l ion in va lue, no exchange control form is requ i red; for imports from Lit 5 m i l l ion to Lit 50 m i l l i on in va lue, a form completed by the importer is requ ired; for imports over Lit 50 m i l l ion in va lue an import document completed by an au thor ized bank is requ i red. Where settlement takes place more than 360 days af ter impor ta t ion, the importer must choose an au tho r ized bank as his bank of domicile, through wh ich he mu st carry out all paymen ts opera- t ions. Deferred paymen ts for imports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place w i th in five years after importation. Advance paymen ts for imports require special approval when they are to take place more than 120 days before impo r ta t ion, except that a 10 percent advance payment may be made up to 360 days before impor ta t ion. Advance paymen ts in excess of Lit 5 m i l l ion mu st be made w i th foreign currency borrowed from au thor ized b a n k s. When prepayments for imports exceed Lit 20 b i l l i o n, an advance deposit of 5 percent is requ i red. For all au thor ized impor ts, the authorized banks provide exchange or perm it payment in Italian lire to a Foreign Accoun t, provided that appropriate payment terms are observed (see section on Cap i ta l, below). In te rna t ional postal money orders may be used for import paymen t s, sub jec t, in some cases, to a l im it for each rem i t ter and fore ign bene f ic ia ry. Payments for Invisibles The au tho r ized b a n ks may sell fore ign exchange for paymen ts for i n v i s i b l es provided that the necessary documen ts are s u bm i t t e d. The ir au tho r i ty to sell ex- change for rem i t tances as gran ts and aid is limited to Lit 300,000 a yea r, and approval of the U IC is required for t rans fe rs by I t a l i an imm i g r a n ts if the amoun ts exceed certain l im i ts or if the t r an s f er is to a coun try other than the coun t ry of o r i g i n. Exchange is granted freely for remittances of earnings or investments. Residents may use in te rna t ional postal money orders for paymen ts, subject to a l im it of Lit 1 m i l l ion for each remitter and foreign b en e f i c i a ry. Paymen ts for services are governed by the same p rov is ions rega rd ing advance and deferred paymen ts as are paymen ts for imports. Certain t ransac t ions (but not the related paymen ts) in respect of services are sub ject to approval by the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade. All con trac ts for insurance of sh ips and a i rc ra ft m u st be approved by the M in is t ry of I n d u s t r y. Approval is also requ ired for contracts in excess of Lit 5 m i l l i on for services rendered by motion p ic tu re ar t is ts and t e c h n i c i a ns who are not residents of an EC member coun t ry. In add i t ion, approval is required for the f o l l ow i ng t ransac t ions if invo lv ing residents of countries that are not members of the IMF: repairs to ships and a i rc ra ft w h i ch are not urgent and necessary for safe ty of opera t ion; expend i tu res in excess of Lit 5 m i l l ion a mon th incurred by press agencies and corre- spondents of da i l ies and periodicals; and contracts in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution excess of Lit 5 million for the services of company managers, self-employed persons, athletes, and enter- tainers other than motion picture artists and technicians. Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain from the banks exchange equ iva lent to Lit 1,600,000 a person a year for tou r ism .5 Authorized banks may grant foreign exchange w i thout l im it for bus iness, medical treatment, and educa t ion, provided that they are satisfied that th is is jus t i f ied in v iew of the du ra t ion and purpose of the trip. The l im it on the amount of Italian bank notes that can be taken out is Lit 200,000 for each visit abroad.6 Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign bank notes that they have prev ious ly declared upon en try, subject to a l im it of the equ iva lent of Lit 1 million a person if an oral declaration is made, as well as Lit 200,000 in I ta l ian bank notes. However, the export of Italian bank notes in denominations larger than Lit 50,000 is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any coun try of a few commodities in a special list (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion in va lue, no exchange control form is required; for exports from Lit 5 million to Lit 50 m i l l ion in va lue, a form completed by the exporter is required; for exports exceeding Lit 50 million in va lue, an export document completed by an authorized bank is required. Advance payments for exports may be received freely if exportation is to take place w i th in five years. Deferred payments for exports are permitted if settlement of at least 90 percent is to take place w i th in 120 days after exportation, and the balance w i th in 24 mon ths. For settlements between 120 and 360 days after exportation, the approval of the UIC is required, except in the case of exports to EC countries on delayed payment terms of up to five years. In all other cases such receipts require the prior approval either of the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade, or (for up to Lit 50 billion) of the Au tonomous Agency for Export Credit Insurance (SACE), or of the Mediocredito if the payment term granted to the foreign importer is less than eight years, depending on whether the trans- action w i ll be covered by state insurance or f inanced at a preferential interest rate under Law No. 221/11. All export proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks w i th in 7 days of effective receipt. Proceeds in U .S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally conver t ib le European currencies may be re- tained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in "Foreign Exchange Accounts" for up to 7 days, du r ing which period such balances may be used for permitted transactions or sold to authorized banks; the banks are 5On April 4, 1984 the I ta l ian au tho r i t ies announced an increase in the foreign exchange a l lowance for tour ist t ravel from the e q u i v a l e nt of Lit 1 .1 m i l l ion to Lit 1.6 m i l l ion a yea r, w i th effect from May 2, 1984; in add i t ion, au thor iza t ion was granted for res iden ts t r a v e l i ng abroad to take w i th them up to Lit 200,000 each in domestic bank notes. 6Persons l i v i ng in border areas may not take out more than Lit 30,000 a day in domestic bank notes and co in, and the e q u i v a l e nt of Lit 20,000 a day in fore ign notes and co in. ITALY allowed to sell these currencies to residents for autho- rized transactions or to negotiate them freely w i th the UIC or among themselves. In cases where documenta- tion is not in order at the t ime of surrender, proceeds may be posted to "Ordinary Waiting Accounts" for a period of up to 15 days from the date of surrender. If the necessary documents are not received w i th in the 15-day wa i t ing period, the proceeds must be assigned to the UIC upon completion of the transaction and w i ll be converted into lire at the lowest exchange rate quoted during the wa i t ing period. Export proceeds may also be received by international postal money order, and in certain circum- stances, in foreign bank notes that are accepted in the coun t ry of issue for credit to bank accounts, balances in wh ich are convertible at off ic ial market rates. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current inv is ib les are subject to the same collection, retention, and surrender requirements as receipts from exports. Sh ipp ing and insurance compa- nies and travel and forwarding agencies may keep Operating Accoun ts (Conti Autorizzati) in U .S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally convert- ible European currencies; unu t i l ized balances must be surrendered periodically. Residents may not retain foreign bank notes left over from trips abroad above the equ iva lent of Lit 50,000 but must sell them to an authorized bank. Persons may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes and Lit 200,000 in Italian bank notes, in denominations not larger than Lit 50,000. Capital Inward and outward movements of nonresident capital are free, but most loans from nonresidents to residents and from residents to nonresidents require specific authorization from the M in is try of the Treasury or the M in is try of Foreign Trade, respectively; long-term loans (other than loans from f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions to nonresi- dents) from member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) for establishing or ma in ta in ing lasting economic relations, and loans to relatives up to the third degree of relation- ship, and some loans from certain German institutions to identified I ta l ian residents do not require authorization. Short-term loans (up to one year and not exceeding Lit 250 m i l l ion) and medium-term (up to five years and not exceeding Lit 250 m i l l ion) f inanc ial loans ( i . e ., loans not connected w i th commercial operations or the perfor- mance of services) from EC countries also do not require au thor iza t ion. Repayment of such loans may be made free ly. A deposit requirement applies to outward transfers of resident-owned capital for direct investments, portfolio inves tmen ts, f inanc ial loans, purchases of real estate, and personal capital movements. The transferor must lodge a lira deposit equ iva lent to 50 percent of the amount transferred (25 percent for certain investment fund securities inves t ing at least 50 percent in Italy, but mu tual funds inves t ing entirely in Italian securities are 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY exempt) in a noninterest-bearing account with the Bank of Italy. In addition, when foreign investments are transferred between residents against lire, the transferee is subject to the deposit requirement, regardless of the date when the investment was made. The deposits are released only when, and to the extent that, disinvestment operations occur, and their release requires the prior approval of the Bank of Italy. Reinvestments of funds in new issues or on the secondary market are exempt if the original investment was made prior to Ju ly 27, 1973. Purchases by residents of certain bonds issued by specified EC institutions are also exempt. Outward direct investment transactions have generally been given an ad hoc exemption. Exemptions are granted in respect of certain transactions such as direct investment abroad by industrial companies and banks; in other cases, such exemption is considered to have been tacitly granted if the authorities do not reply within 15 days. Prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required for an Italian company to establish an overseas financial holding company; the parent company mus t, inter alia, submit annual audited accounts of such a holding company to the Ministry. Foreign investment in Italy is, in principle, governed by Law No. 43 and subsequent implementing regula- tions. Foreign investments of any k ind, including both direct and portfolio investment and the purchase of real estate, are permitted freely, and no restrictions are applied to their repatriation. Direct investment in OECD countries by physical or juridical persons (other than participation by a f inanc ial institution that has its main office in Italy in a foreign company not having the same corporate purpose) is permitted in any form and without any l im i t .7 Direct investment in other countries may be made only by juridical persons in firms that are in the same line of business as that of the Italian firm mak ing the invest- ment; other types of direct investment in such countries require special authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these investments also covers the reinvestment of earnings and the use for this purpose of the liquidation proceeds of previous investments (after crediting the proceeds of the disinvestment to bank accounts similar to those estab- lished for proceeds from exports and invisibles; see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, above). Residents are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of Italy or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on foreign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among them- selves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities, except securities of Lit 300,000 or less, have to be deposited with an Italian bank or with a bank abroad for account of an Italian bank. The purchase by residents of shares of foreign financial institutions of any kind 7Financial inves tmen t, that is, inves tment not intended to establish permanent relations, is not considered direct inves tmen t. The regula- tions governing direct investment are also not applicable to partici- pations in "holdings" abroad of any k ind. 280 (including mu tual fund s ), as well as convertible bonds issued by such ins t i tu t ions, requires prior approval by the UIC. In practice, however, a resident is able to purchase freely shares of foreign funds that have received authori- zation from the Ministry of Foreign Trade to sell their shares in I ta ly, since that authorization is valid also for the ind iv idual resident subscriber. Such authorization is given only to funds meeting certain requirements, inc lud ing the investment of at least 50 percent of their portfolio in Italian securities and the establishment of a branch office in I ta ly. Residents do not require authori- zation to purchase real estate in EC countries. All issues of securities by nonresidents on the Italian capital market require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are subject to the rules governing the issue of domestic securities. These rules include the prior approval of the Bank of Italy and, for issues above Lit 500 m i l l ion, that of the Ministry of the Treasury, the Ministry of Indus t ry, and the Interministerial Credit Committee. Issues are normally restricted to interna- tional ins t i tu t ions. Transfers in connection w i th donations and inher- itances may be made free ly. The transfer of property of residents leaving I ta ly permanently is allowed in two stages: the equ iva lent of Lit 5 million a person is allowed upon presentation of specified documents to an autho- rized bank at the time of leaving Italy, and the remainder is subject to examination of the documents by the UIC, when residence has been established abroad. Loans and credits (the latter only beyond a certain dura t ion, generally 180—360 days) not connected with commercial transactions or w i th the performance of services require the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the M in is try of the Treasury. However, f inanc ial loans may be granted to or by residents of EC countries as indicated above. Gold Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in I ta ly, w i th the exception of unrefined gold imported under ministerial license for industrial pur- poses. The monetary authorities may freely acquire unrefined gold abroad. Agent banks may acquire unre- fined gold abroad, under authorization of the Ministry of the Treasury and the Ministry of Foreign Trade, to sell it to Italian firms authorized by the Ministry of Foreign Trade for indus tr ial use. Exports of wrought and semi- manufac tured gold, other than jewe l ry, are subject to licensing. Imports of unrefined gold are not subject to value-added tax. Importation and exportation of gold coins that are legal tender in a foreign country are prohibited in the absence of a special authorization. Imports of other gold coins for num isma t ic purposes are free but subject to value-added tax at 18 percent. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement March 21. As part of a realignment of exchange rates w i th in the European Monetary System (EMS), the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY central rate of the lira w i th in the EMS was adjusted downward by 2.5 percent. Payments for Invisibles May 9. A decree of the Foreign Trade M in i s t ry raised the amount of foreign exchange available to Italian residents for tourist travel to the equ iva lent of Lit 1,600,000 a person a year. In addition, I ta l ian residents going abroad were allowed to take w i th them up to Lit 200,000 in bank notes for each visit abroad. (Previously, tourists were allowed only Lit 1 .1 million a year, including bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds December 17. The Foreign Trade M in is t ry an- nounced that individual export transactions of less than Lit 50 billion wh ich did not involve a particular risk needing to be covered by compulsory insurance and which benefited from interest subsidy offered by Mediocredito could be permitted by the latter without fu r ther foreign exchange authorization. Capital December 17. In a liberalization of the regulations on outward capital transfers, the Ministry of Foreign Trade announced that requests for direct investment abroad would be exempted from the requirement of establishing a 50 percent noninterest-bearing deposit if the Italian Exchange Office did not respond to such a request within 15 days. 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST (Position on December 31, 1983} Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ivory Coast is the CFA F r an c ,' wh ich is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The o f f ic ial buy ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA f ranc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per m i ll on transfers from countries outside the West Afr ican Mone- tary Un ion, and one of 2.50 per m i ll on transfers to such countries .2 Banks and the postal system also levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Un ion, part of wh ich must be surren- dered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, the exchange control measures of Ivory Coast do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ma l i, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of External Finance and Credit in the M in is try of Economy and Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any information necessary to compile the balance of pay- ments statistics, either directly or through the banks, other financial ins t i tu t ions, the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion, and notaries public. All exchange transac t ions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Since Ivory Coast is an Operations Account coun t ry, settlements w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Gu inea, Gu inea -B i s sau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are 'The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des E ta ts de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in B e n i n, Ivory Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta. 2Transfers between member countries of the Un ion are subject to the f lat commission of CFAF 100 levied on se t t lemen ts be tween agenc ies of the BCEAO. 282 no rm a l ly made th rough the West A f r ican Clearing House. Settlements w i th all other countries are usually effected th rough correspondent banks in France, in any of the currenc ies of those coun t r ies, or in French francs th rough Foreign Accoun ts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions pe r ta in ing to nonres ident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been ma i led to the BCEAO agency in Abidjan by au thor ized b ank s' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the c red i t ing to non res ident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank no tes, or bank notes issued by any other i n s t i t u te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign Accoun ts in Francs may be debited, w i thout prior au tho r iza t ion, w i th the va lue of BCEAO bank notes that are ma i led by au tho r ized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts from Sou th A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Under a decree that came in to force on Janua ry 1, 1982, all imports are c la s s i f ied in to four categories, as follows: (a) p roh ib i ted imports ( e . g ., whea t, f lou r, and a specified type of co f f e e -hu sk ing mach ine); (b) import i tems ( e . g ., p a i n t s, ma tches, detergents, iron or steel tubes, man -made fab r ics, articles of leather, footwear, and carpets) for w h i ch import licenses are obligatory for each import t ransac t ion exceed ing CFAF 25,000, f .o .b .; (c) import i tems r equ i r ing a declaration of intent to import; and (d) import i tems requ i r ing both prior au tho r iza t ion and a dec la ra t ion of in tent to import; in the last two cases, (c) and ( d ), the requirements apply only to i n d i v i d u al t ransac t ions exceeding CFAF 100,000, f . o . b. (CFAF 500,000 for goods classified as essential). As noted be low, cer ta in other import items are subject to annu al vo lume or va lue quo tas. Imports of rice depend on domestic p roduc t ion, since they are intended as a supplementary means of sa t is fy ing domestic demand; such imports take p lace on the basis of an international inv i ta t ion to bid or a government-to-government con- tract. All other imports may be made freely from any coun t ry; howeve r, as men t ioned above, when valued f . o . b. at CFAF 100,000 or more they are subject to the subm iss ion of a declaration of in tent to import or to prior au tho r i z a t ion, and when the va lue f . o . b. exceeds CFAF 1 .5 m i l l ion or more they are subject to mandatory p re sh ipment inspec t ion by the Societe Generate de Surve i l lance (SGS), in order to control their price, q u a n t i t y, and q u a l i t y. Tar iffs have been raised for certain goods that compete w i th local production and, in the case of some goods, have been supplemented by annual vo lume quo tas. Special ce i l ings have been set for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution selected imports from certain countries hav ing low production costs with which the trade balance has been consistently in large def ic i t. These quotas and ceilings are reviewed annua l ly. All import operations relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000; transactions of lower value also must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank if a financial transaction is to be undertaken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before sh ipmen t, if a docu- mentary credit is opened, or only on the due date of payment, if the commodities have already been im- ported. Effective June 15, 1981 foreign exchange for import payments must be purchased either on the settlement date specified in the commercial contract or at the time when the required downpayment is made. Spot foreign exchange cover is limited to imports effected by means of documentary credits; the transaction must be domiciled w i th an authorized in termed iary, and ship- ment of goods must be w i th in e ight days of the exchange operation. Forward exchange cover for imports in eligible cases must not extend beyond one month for certain clearly specified goods and three mon ths for goods designated as essential commodities; no renewal of cover is possible. Payments for Invisibles Payments for inv is ib les to France (as def ined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Trans- fers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, d iv idends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Any resident may make payments abroad free ly, at any t ime, through an authorized bank, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a month w i thout subm i t t ing any documen- tation. Residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation for tourism of an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 175,000 a person a year (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten). For business travel a special foreign exchange allocation is authorized up to a max imum of CFAF 20,000 a day and CFAF 400,000 a tr ip. Any foreign exchange rema in ing in excess of CFAF 5,000 after return to Ivory Coast must be surrendered. The transfer of the fu ll basic salary of a foreigner working in Ivory Coast is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i t h in three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out BCEAO bank notes up to CFAF 25,000. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank IVORY COAST notes; however, if they travel to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Un ion, the amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers to foreign countries may freely take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any traveler's checks, etc., issued abroad. Subject to documen ta t ion, they may also take out any amount of traveler's checks, etc ., in foreign currency established in their name after conversion of foreign currency into CFA f rancs, or drawn against a Foreign Account in Francs, or in a foreign currency in Ivory Coast. Nonresidents who have made a currency declaration upon entry or are able to show the proper bank ing notices may take out larger amoun ts. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declaration on ly. Exports of certain processed and unprocessed agricul- tural commodities, however, require the visa of the Directorate of External Trade. The due date for payment in respect of exports to foreign countries, inc lud ing those in the French Franc Area, must not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their des t ina t ion. Regardless of the currency of settlement and the buy ing coun t ry, export receipts must be collected and repatri- ated through authorized intermediary banks w i th in one month of the due date. Regardless of destination, all export transactions mu st be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amoun ts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered w i th in two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents br ing ing in foreign bank notes or other foreign means of payment must sell any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an authorized bank w i th in eight days and must make a declaration to the customs upon en try. Capital Capital movements between Ivory Coast and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted free ly. 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad, over foreign inward direct investment, over all outward inves tment in foreign countries, and over the issu ing, adver t is ing, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast. Such operations require prior authorization by the M in i s t ry of Economy and Finance as do issues by Ivory Coast companies. Exempt from au thor iza t ion, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Ivory Coast Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose i s su ing, advertis- ing, or offering for sale in Ivory Coast has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit w i th foreign private persons and foreign firms and ins t i tu t ions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Ivory Coast require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance.3 Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Ivory Coast4 are subject to prior authorization by the M in i s ter of Economy and Finance. Effective June 15, 1981 at least 75 percent of investments abroad by residents of Ivory Coast must be financed by borrowing abroad. The liquidation of investments, whether direct inves tmen ts or not, in Ivory Coast or abroad must s im i lar ly be reported in advance to the Minister. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Ivory Coast investments abroad or foreign inves tmen ts in Ivory Coast, must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days Including those made through foreign companies that are d i rec t ly or indirectly controlled by persons resident in Ivory Coast and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies resident in Ivo ry Coast. Including those made in Ivory Coast by companies that are d i r e c t ly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Ivory Coast of fore ign companies. fo l low ing each operation. Direct investments are defined as inves tmen ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inve s tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from this au thor iza t ion: (1) loans taken up by industrial firms to f inance transactions abroad, to finance imports into or exports from Ivory Coast, or by approved international trad ing houses to f inance international merchanting transactions; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans, including the new borrow ing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans constituting a direct investment is subject to the formalities prescribed for the liquidation of direct inves tmen ts. The repayment of other loans re- quires au thor iza t ion on ly if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control au tho r iza t ion. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 provides tax and customs du ty benef i ts and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as hav ing priority status. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Ivory Coast. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authoriza- tion by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance, which is rarely granted. Exempt from th is requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles contain- ing a minor qu an t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a we ight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs dec lara t ion. Changes During 1983 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Jamaica is the Jamaica Dollar, for which the spot exchange rate in terms of the U .S. dollar is determined at an auction conducted four times a week by the banks. On December 31, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, the intervention cur- rency, were J$3.25 = US$1 and J$3.30 = US$1, respectively. Jamaica avails itself of wider margins. There are no taxes on sales of foreign exchange. The Bank of Jamaica's dealings against Jamaica dollars are confined to transactions in certain major currencies.2 For spot dealings w i th commercial banks in the major currencies, the Bank of Jamaica charges no commission on purchases but 0.0625 percent is charged on sales. The commercial banks apply a commission charge of 0.375 percent on sales of non-CARicoM currencies and a discount charge of 0.125 percent on purchases of these currencies. For CARICOM currencies, the commercial banks apply a commission charge of 0.25 percent on sales and a discount charge of 0.25 per- cent on purchases. Jamaica formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange control on behalf of the Minister of Finance, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Minister is required. The commercial banks are desig- nated as authorized dealers. Except for the allowance for tourist travel, for which the commercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange, paymen ts under the Special Retained Account, and transfers from Exter- nal Accounts, all foreign exchange payments require the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. Commercial banks act as agents of the Bank of Jamaica only in respect of specified transactions, ma in ly in the export sector. Import licenses are issued by the Trade Adminis- trator, who is responsible to the Minister of Industry and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an External Account or in any foreign 'By early 1984 the ins t i tu t ional arrangement for de te rm ina t ion of the exchange rate of the Jamaica dollar was under review and was expected to be modified shortly. 2Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French f ranc s, I ta l ian l i re, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U .S. do l lars, and the currencies of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM). The CARICOM countries are An t igua and Ba rbuda, Bar- bados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis, St Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. currency .3 Receipts from all countries must be received by debit of an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts The commercial banks are empowered to open Exter- nal Accounts in Jamaica dollars for nonresidents, pro- vided that no credit of Jamaica dollars is made to the accounts w i thout the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. The funds on these accounts may be transferred freely between nonresidents. External Accounts may be credited w i th payments by residents of Jamaica that have been approved by the Exchange Control Authority, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Jamaica, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts wh ich are credited w i th funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents of Jamaica ( inc lud ing the proceeds from the sale of undeveloped land) are designated Blocked Accounts. Blocked funds may be used w i thout limitation by nonresidents for local expenditure while they are in Jamaica, and for invest- ment in Jamaica dollar securities or local mortgages, or both. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts in excess of J$5,000 a calendar year, for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner, must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. As an exception to the surrender requirement for foreign exchange, approved importers may open special foreign exchange accounts in commercial banks in Jamaica; payments from such accounts can be made only for authorized expenditures. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in South Africa are prohibited. A number of goods may be imported freely from virtually all sources under an open general license.4 All other imports require specific licenses, irrespective of origin.5 For some goods, licenses are not normally issued unless they originate in member countries of the CARICOM.6 Imports are subject, in principle, to a global annual ceiling. Certain food items and all motor vehicles may be 3 All currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are considered foreign currencies. All foreign currencies have been designated as specified currencies. 4For these goods, the open general license applies to all countries except South A f r i c a. Goods imported under the license must be consigned from one of the permitted countries and must also originate in a permitted coun t ry. 5As part of the changes introduced on January 10, 1983, import licenses were replaced by import permits issued to importers up to specified value quotas for items not on the restricted list. 6For import l icens ing purposes, the Bahamas is treated as a CARICOM member coun t ry. 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA imported only by a pub l ic sector agency, the Jamaica Commodity Trading Corporation. Payments for imports are subject to prior registration w i th the Bank of Jama ica, and all payments for imports are subject to the licensing requirements, if any, being met; the importer must present a copy of the settlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and va lue, together with documentary evidence that the goods either have been shipped or are about to be shipped or that the importer is under contract to make prepayment up to six months prior to shipment. Exchange Control approval is required for advance paymen ts. Certain goods are subject to a consump t ion tax, whether they are imported or manufac tured domes- tically. In addition, a 10 percent stamp du ty tax is applied to imports, w i th the exception of government imports, basic food items, crude petroleum, fuel for utility companies, imports from CARICOM countries, and most raw materials. These taxes are collected at the port of entry and are calculated on the sum of the va lue accepted for customs and the customs d u t y. In December 1978 the authorities initiated a scheme whereby, w i th in certain l im i ts, priority for access to foreign exchange is granted to those importers who qua l ify for "certified exporter status." Access to that status is linked to past and projected export performance and to the local value-added content of the exported product. There are arrears in respect of paymen ts for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange is no t, as a rule, made available for remittances of income from emigrants' property in Jamaica, rem i t tances for f am i ly maintenance, and cash g i f t s. In the case of transfers from emigrants' income and payments for fam i ly ma in te- nance, limited exceptions may be approved by the Minister of Finance on human i ta r ian grounds. All interest and dividends payable to nonresident investors are approved net of taxation. A basic exchange allowance of US$55 a person for each calendar year for foreign travel other than for business or professional reasons is made available to residents by authorized dealers. The sale of foreign exchange for travel for business and professional reasons is subject to the specific approval of the Bank of Jama ica and to daily limits of US$125 a day for the United States and US$175 a day for Europe. The number of days for which the approval is granted is determined on the merits of each case. Expenses for hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc ., that are settled in Jama ica in domestic currency must be deducted from the travel allocation. Non-Jamaicans working in Jama ica under a work permit are allowed to remit abroad 30 percent of their gross salary dur ing the period of the ir contract and their accumulated assets at the end of the contract period. Residents going abroad may take w i th them Jama ica bank notes not exceeding J$20 and other bank notes not 286 exceeding the equ iva lent of J$50. Bona fide requests for additional amoun ts are approved by the Bank of Jamai- ca. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. All visitors to Jamaica carrying more than US$500 or its equivalent must declare the foreign exchange they bring in or take out of Jamaica. There are arrears in respect of invisible payments. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods va lued at not more than J$300 ( f .o .b .) may be f ree ly exported by post or air express to any country not on the prohibited l i s t .7 Where the value exceeds J$300, the goods may still be exported to all countries except those on the prohibited l is t, but a specific license is required for the export of certain agricultural products, ammun i t ion, explosives, firearms, antique furn i ture, ready-made garmen ts, gold bu l l ion, mineral and metal ores, and an t ique pa in t ing s. Exporters are required to surrender the ir exchange proceeds to authorized dealers w i t h in three mon ths from the date of shipment. How- ever, w i th the approval of the exchange control authori- t ies, certain exporters may retain an agreed portion of their settlement of overseas commitments, as may be necessary for the ir operations; such retained export proceeds mu st not be sold to other nonbank residents. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from inv i s ib les in foreign currencies must be sold to an au tho r ized dealer. Residents returning to Jama ica may br ing in Jamaica bank notes up to J$20 a trave ler, provided that th is amount was declared on leav ing the coun t ry, and all travelers may bring in or take out Jama ican cu r rency. Resident travelers are required to sell the ir ho ld ings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon re tu rn. Tourists are required to settle their hotel b i l ls in foreign currencies, unless they can prove that they had purchased w i th foreign currency an equ iv a l ent amount of Jamaica dollars from an authorized bank in Jama ica. Capital Ou t f lows of resident-owned capital are restricted, irrespective of the ir des t ina t ion. Investments abroad by residents and the purchase of local assets by residents from nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control au thor i t ies and are not approved, unless they resu lt in tang ib le benef i ts for Jamaica. Foreign exchange is not made available to residents to make cash gifts to nonres iden ts. W i th the exception of certain types of investment in real estate, all approved direct inves tmen ts in Jamaica by nonresidents are granted "approved status," under which the investor is given written assurance that he will at any t ime be able to repatriate his original investment plus any 7The l ist comprises A l b a n i a, Bu lg a r i a, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic R e p u b l i c, H u n g a r y, Po land, Roman ia, South A f r ica, and U . S . S . R. Exports to these coun tr ies require specific licenses. In p rac t ice, no l icenses are issued for exports to South A f r ica. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution capital gain. In order to obtain approved status, the investor must apply to the Bank of Jamaica. Nonresidents are normally not permitted to take up security in respect of loans made to Jamaican companies owned or controlled by them. Domestic bank credit to nonresidents and to nonresident-controlled companies is subject to selective credit controls; for this purpose, firms are considered to be nonresident-controlled when the controlling interest is held beneficially, either di- rectly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the CARICOM area. Such lending is subject to approval by the Bank of Jamaica. There are two types of fixed-term foreign currency deposit schemes ("A" and "B") for both residents and nonresidents. Accounts under the "A" scheme may be credited with any means of paymen t, except cash or traveler's checks, but the transactions mu st be effected through a commercial bank; the deposits are freely repatriable upon ma tur i ty. Accounts under the "B" scheme may be credited w i th any means of payment b u t, upon maturity, the deposit may be used only for approved purposes, such as payment for imports. In general, non-Jamaican nonresidents are not per- mitted to raise local mortgages. However, nonresidents working in Jamaica under a work permit may acquire a house to live in, with the permissible amount of mortgage restricted to 50 percent. Foreign nonresident owners of land in Jamaica, when selling to residents, are allowed to remit from Jamaica, in the first instance, the amount they paid originally from funds brought into Jamaica; the balance of the sale price can be remitted annually in ten equal installments, subject to a max imum remittance in any one year of J$l0,000, except where the owner had received a previous unde r tak ing that the investment in land carried "approved status." Foreign nonresident owners of houses bu i lt on residential lots are treated similarly, provided that the nonresident seller can satisfy the Bank of Jamaica as to the amount spent in Jamaica in acquiring the lot and constructing the building. Except for special cases, which may be approved by the Minister of Finance on human i tar ian grounds, no foreign exchange is made available for remittances of capital or income to Jamaican nationals who have emigrated abroad and to beneficiaries under w i l ls and intestacies. Between January 1977 and March 1979 principal payments for private nonguaranteed debt were not being released. Applications received up to June 1978 for the remittance of principal were placed in the Deposit Scheme and were released between April and December 1979. The balance of outstanding private, nonguaranteed debt has been consolidated w i th repayment scheduled over a 70-month period wh ich began in January 1980. JAMAICA Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for num isma t ic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the M in is try of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus t r ial users. All commercial imports of jewelry require import licenses. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement January 10. A dual exchange market arrangement was introduced under wh ich settlements in respect of traditional exports, exports to CARICOM countries, speci- fied inv is ib les, and essential imports were to be effected at the off ic ial exchange rate. All other transactions were to be conducted at a freely-determined parallel market rate operated by the commercial banks. May 18. A special exchange rate of J$2.25 = US$1 was established for all transactions w i th CARICOM coun- tries, other than those previously designated for payment at the off ic ial exchange rate. June 17. It was announced that payments for a range of imports, inc lud ing oil, agricultural inpu ts, and drugs, would be shifted from the off ic ial to the parallel market. July 1. A commission of 3 percent was levied on all sales of foreign exchange by the Bank of Jamaica, with the exception of those relating to amortization payments on off ic ial debt. August 30. A regulation was introduced requiring commercial banks to set un i fo rm rates for parallel market transactions, and to sell to the Bank of Jamaica, for the purpose of f inanc ing oil imports, at least 50 percent of their foreign exchange receipts. November 23. The commission of 3 percent on sales of foreign exchange by the Bank of Jamaica was abolished. November 24. The official exchange rate, the parallel market exchange rate, and the special rate for CARICOM transactions were un i f ied into a single rate to be established by the commercial banks on a daily basis w i th in adjustable margins described by the Bank of Jama ica. Ins t i tu t ional arrangements for the daily fixings were to be determined at a later date. On the first day of the new arrangements the middle rate was established at J$3 .10 = US$1, and the in i t ial upper and lower limits of the margins were set at J$3.00 = US$1 and J$3.30 = US$1, respectively. (The previous official exchange rate of J$1 .78 = US$1 had prevailed since May 2, 1979.) December 28. An arrangement for foreign exchange auc t ion was ins t i tu ted for determining the daily exchange rate of the Jamaica dollar. Gold Commemorative gold coins in denom ina t ions of J$20, J$100, and J$250 are legal tender but do not circulate. Imports and Import Payments January JO. The practice of issuing "no-funds" licen- ses ( i . e ., licenses not invo lv ing use of official foreign 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA exchange) for all goods except genu ine g i f ts and imports by the baux i te sector was d iscon t inued. March 22. It was announced that all motor veh ic les would have to be imported through the Jama ica Com- modity Trading Company. November 24. Along w i th the un i f ica t ion of the exchange system, all import paymen ts were required to be made at the official exchange rate. under w h i ch exports of non t rad i t ional products were allowed to retain up to 50 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds in the form of negotiable claims w h i ch provided au toma t ic access to import permits for spare parts, cap i tal goods, and raw materials. November 24. A long w i th the un i f ica t ion of the exchange sys tem, all export proceeds were required to be surrendered at the o f f ic ial exchange rate. Exports and Export Proceeds January 10. In connection w i th the es tab l ishment of a dual exchange market, an arrangement was introduced Capital December 8. Au tho r i z a t ion was granted for commer- cial banks to accept deposits in foreign currency. 288 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Japan is the Japanese Yen. The authorities of Japan do not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions and exchange rates are deter- mined, in principle, on the basis of underlying demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. How- ever, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the markets. The prin- cipal intervention currency is the U .S. dollar. The interbank rate for the U .S. dollar on December 30, 1983 was ¥ 232.00 per US$1. Au thor ized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions w i th nonresident banks and among themselves; their forward transactions with resident customers must be carried out on the basis of actual d em a n d .l There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2 , 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated mainly by the Ministry of Finance, the M in is try of In terna t ional Trade and Industry (MITI), and the Bank of Japan acting as the Government's agent. Most of the authority for verifying normal payments is, however, delegated to authorized banks referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import and export reporting requirements are handled by the MITI. Inward direct investments are under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Finance and other appro- priate ministers. Outward direct investment requires prior notice to the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any currency, including yen, and receipts also may be obtained in any currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in yen may be opened by any nonresident w i th any authorized bank in Japan. There are no restrictions on credits to or payments from these accounts, and balances may be converted freely into any foreign currency. Payment of interest on balances in such accounts may be restricted when it is deemed necessary to prevent drastic f luc tua t ions in the exchange rate of the yen. Imports and Import Payments Imports can be freely made, w i th the exception of specifically restricted items. The Import Restriction 'With effect from April 1, 1984, permission has been granted for authorized banks to carry out forward exchange transac t ions w i th resident customers ou ts ide the basis of ac tual demand. System covers 79 items, 27 of which have been notified to the GATT as residual restrictions, while the remaining items have been notified as falling under the state- trading, national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT. For the restricted items, once the importer has obtained authorization from the MITI, he receives an import quota certificate that entitles him to receive an import license from an authorized foreign exchange bank automatically upon application. For the importation of certain other goods from specified countries or shipping areas, individual authorization must be obtained from the MITI. Items under state trading include certain dairy prod- uc ts, certain cereals, salt, raw s i lk, raw and manufac- tured tobacco, poppy straw, raw opium, and ethyl and denatured alcohol. Payment for imports may be effected up to one year before the import declaration or after customs clearance. Longer settlement periods require an import license from the MITI. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for inv is ib les may be made w i thout any l im i ta t ion. G i f ts and donations to nonresidents (except relatives abroad) exceeding ¥ 5 million are referred to the Bank of Japan, which approves the payment after verifying its authenticity. However, remittances to rela- tives abroad, as well as other current payments for inv is ib les, such as the purchase of foreign currencies in connection w i th travel abroad, may be made without l im i t. Both residents and nonresidents may acquire foreign currency deposits w i th authorized banks in Japan and may take out freely any amount in any foreign currency; in the case of Japanese yen, the freely exportable limit is ¥ 5 m i l l ion. Overseas deposits by resident individuals up to the equ iva lent of ¥ 3 million are subject to automatic approval by the Bank of Japan. Qualified Japanese enterprises in insurance, transportation, securities, etc., are permitted to acquire overseas deposits under blanket licensing. Exports and Export Proceeds Export restraint may be exercised by virtue of the Export and Import Transactions Law and an Export Trade Control Order issued under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export restraint may be applied either globally or to specified destinations, and it may cover export volume, or export prices, or other conditions. Exports of passenger cars to the United States are subject to quantitative limits for the three-year period end ing April 30,1984; a quantitative limit has also been set for the subsequent one-year period. Exports of videotape recorders to the EC are subject to quantitative res tr ic t ions. At the end of 1983, there were 54 export 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN cartels under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. Of these, 43 required prior notice of exporters' agreements in respect of export transactions, 11 required prior approval of manufacturers' agreements on domestic transactions in goods for export, and 8 were reinforced by an export transactions license requirement. In addition, 195 items were subject to license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law, in order to control their export to specified socialist countries, or because of short supply in the domestic market (e .g ., tungsten ore), or to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., on sewing machines and certain textiles). Exports under processing contracts and exports for wh ich settlement is under the "special" method also require individual licenses. Ex- ports of specified raw materials for foreign processing and reimport require individual licenses; "special" set- tlement methods are those effected by means of open account or those involving payment later than one year after shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles may generally be accepted w i thout a license. Residents as well as nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in Japanese or foreign currency. Capital Capital transactions are permitted unless specifically restricted. Such specific restrictions may take the form of requiring (1) prior approval; (2) prior notice w i th a waiting period, during which the minister or ministers concerned may request or order that the transaction be suspended or its particulars be modified on the basis of prescribed criteria; or (3) prior notice w i thout a waiting period. Other transactions are normally free. Under emergency conditions, most capital transactions not subject to specific restrictions may be subjected to prior approval; emergency conditions are defined as situations in which a capital transaction might (1) make the maintenance of equ i l ibr ium in Japan's balance of pay- ments d iff icu l t; (2) result in drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate; or (3) result in an international flow of funds large enough to adversely affect Japan's money or capital market. A distinction is made between direct investment in Japan and other capital transactions. Besides majority equity ownership of enterprises or establishment of branch operations, other types of investment that come under the direct investment regulations include (1) any acquisition of shares in unlisted companies; (2) acquisi- tion of 10 percent or more of the shares of a listed company (including individual companies for which the stock price in over-the-counter transactions is made public by the Securities Dealers Association) by a single foreign investor; and (3) acquisition of loans of more than one-year maturity or securities privately placed in Japan, under certain circumstances. Any change of business objectives of a company with more than one- 290 third foreign ownersh ip is also subject to the provisions for direct inves tmen t. Requests or orders for suspension or mod if ica t ion of specific aspects of the transaction may be made if the minister or ministers concerned consider the transaction to have adverse implications for national security, public order, pub l ic safe ty, the activities of Japanese enterprises in related lines of activities, the general performance of the economy, or for the mainte- nance of mu tual equa l i ty of treatment of direct invest- ment w i th other countries. As a transitional measure, Japanese enterprises may be "designated" by the minister concerned if a large degree of foreign ownership might be considered l ike ly to have adverse implications for national security, pub l ic order, public safety, or the performance of the economy. For such designated enterprises (totaling 11 enterprises by the end of 1983), any foreign acquisition of stock that would raise the proportion of foreign ownership above a stated level (generally 25 percent) would be subject to provisions s im i lar to those for direct investment regulations .2 Acqu is i t ion of securities for portfolio through desig- nated securities f irms can be freely made, but acquisition of such securities through securities firms other than the designated ones requires prior notice w i thout a waiting period. Issues of securities abroad by Japanese enter- prises (or guarantees related to such issues) or nonresi- dent acqu is i t ion of real estate in Japan other than for personal use, for nonprofit ac t iv i ty, or for housing an off ice, are subject to prior notice w i th a 20-day waiting period.3 Transactions requ ir ing prior notice with a 20- day wa i t ing period may be subjected by the Minister of Finance to suspension or modification if in his opinion the transaction m ight adversely affect (1) domestic and international money markets, (2) Japan's international repu ta t ion, (3) business activities of a sector of the Japanese industries or the smooth performance of the national economy, and (4) implementation of Japan's international agreements, international peace and secu- r i ty, or the ma in tenance of pub l ic order. The Minister of Finance may shorten the notification period when the transaction under consideration is deemed unha rm fu l. Prior approval is required for the issue of Euro-yen bonds by nonres iden ts .4 Other transactions by nonresi- dents may be generally carried out freely. Outward inves tmen ts by residents in the form of loans, usance exceeding one year, issue of yen- denominated bonds in Japan by nonresidents, and direct inves tment abroad are subject to prior notice with a 20-day wa i t ing period. The criteria for suspension or modification of specific aspects of such transactions are as in the preceding paragraph. Foreign currency deposits overseas by residents and borrowing and lending in foreign currency between residents require prior legislation aimed at abo l i sh ing the designated company system was pend ing in the Diet by the end of 1983. 3Legislation aimed at l i b e r a l i z i ng nonresident acquisition of real estate in Japan was pend ing in the Diet by the end of 1983. 4Gu id e l in es for the issuance of Euro-yen bonds by residents were eased w i th e f fect from Ap r il 1, 1984. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution approval. Other external transac t ions by res iden ts may normally be carried out f ree ly. Foreign exchange banks are sub ject i n d i v i d u a l ly to controls over their overa ll net position in fore ign cur- rency (their oversold or overbought position), and l im i ts are also applied to the net spot oversold pos i t ion. Foreign loans by banks are legally subject to prior notice w i th a waiting period, but in most cases they can be made upon notification. The banks are free to lend yen on a long- term basis overseas to borrowers of the ir choice, and they can accept foreign currency deposits from residents and nonresidents and make foreign currency loans to residents; foreign currency or yen deposits of nonresi- dents as well as residents are subject to m i n im um reserve requirements adjusted from t ime to t ime by the Bank of Japan. Foreign banks are licensed to operate in Japan subject to Japanese bank ing regu la t ions; they may obtain resources from inward rem i t tances of foreign currency as well as from money marke ts in Japan. Gold Residents, inc lud ing domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in domestic transactions. The import and export of gold bu l l ion is free from licensing, but t ransac t ions exceed ing 2 k i lo- grams require no t if ica t ion to a customs house. Fu tures trading in gold can be freely made by designated companies. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments January 13. The Japanese Government announced a set of measures aimed at fu r ther l ibe ra l iza t ion of import access to the domestic ma rke t. The f ive-po int package included tariff cu ts on 86 i tems, re laxa t ion of import quotas, improvements in import inspection procedures, sales promotion of fore ign cigarettes by expans ion of retail outlets and by improvements in th e ir d i s t r ibu t ion system, and various other measures, in c lud ing promo- tion of the procurement of fore ign p roduc ts. March 26. As a means of fu r ther open ing up the Japanese market to foreign goods, the gove rnment announced a package of measures to s im p l i fy the standards and certification sys tem. April I. In con t inua t ion of steps to open up the Japanese marke t, import du t ies reduc t ions or abo l i t ions came into effect for 323 import i tems. May 18. The Diet approved a package of 16 revised bills designed to improve and s imp l i fy the standardiza- tion and certification system for imports and to open further Japanese markets to foreign goods. October 21. The Government announced a package of measures aimed at s t imu l a t ing the domestic economy and promoting imports of goods and services as we ll as capital, inc lud ing (a) a one-year advance t a r i ff reduction on industrial products agreed under the Tokyo Round; (b) an increase in the c e i l ing quotas for indu s t r ial products in the GSP Scheme; and (c) a reduc t ion or elimination of import ta r i f fs on more than 40 d i f fe rent items, w i th effect from April 1, 1984. JAPAN Exports and Export Proceeds February 12. Japan agreed to restrict exports to the EC of videotape recorders (to 4.55 m i l l ion un i t s) and color television tubes (900,000 un i ts) in 1983, and to moderate exports of machine tools, light vans, forklift t rucks, motorcycles, h igh-f ide l i ty equ ipmen t, and quartz wa tches. The agreement also committed Japanese pro- ducers to a l ign the ir export prices of videotape recorders to the EC w i th domestic EC prices of these products. February 15. Japan agreed to l im it passenger car shipments to the United States dur ing the one-year period from April 1, 1983 to 1.68 million units (the annu al level du r ing the previous two years), under the vo lun ta ry res tra int arrangement started on April 1, 1981. November 1. Japan agreed to limit passenger car exports to the Un i ted States to 1.85 million un i ts dur ing the year starting on April 1, 1984. November 18. Japan agreed to limit exports of videotape recorders to the EC to 3.95 m i l l ion un i ts in 1984. Capital February 1. Domestic sales of foreign zero coupon bonds to Japanese residents by securities companies, wh ich had been suspended in March 1982, were resumed. February 2. New guidelines were issued by the M in is t ry of Finance in regard to overseas lending by Japanese bank s, inc lud ing matching requirements for fund procuremen t, l im i ts on foreign currency assets of each bank in relation to equ i ty and reserves, and the es tab l ishment of a special reserve for banks to provide for possible loan loss overseas. March 4. Japanese banks provided f inanc ing for the first time under the guarantee of the U .S. Export-Import Bank for exports by a U .S. manufac turer. April 1. The amount of foreign currencies wh ich foreign banks in Japan were allowed to convert into yen was increased by 20 percent for those wh ich, in the previous six mon ths, had used up more than 80 percent of the ir conversion quotas. In add i t ion, the m in imum required level of the overall foreign exchange position of fore ign banks was doubled to US$1 m i l l ion. April I. C i ty banks were allowed to issue bonds abroad th rough the ir subsidiaries; funds thus raised wou ld be used by the i s su ing subs id ia ry 's parent bank for lend ing abroad. April 1. Au thor iza t ion was granted for banks to sell new issues of long-term government bonds, local bonds, and government-guaranteed bonds at banks' business offices. June 21. Au thor iza t ion was granted for securities companies to extend loans to customers us ing public bonds as co l la tera l. June 6. In a l ibera l iza t ion of short-term Euro-yen lend ing by Japanese bank s, the Ministry of Finance abolished the regu la t ion l im i t ing such lending w i th a ma tur i ty of one year or less to trade-related transactions. October 1. Au tho r iza t ion was granted for banks to sell new issues of med ium- term government bonds at banks' business off ices. 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Jordan is the Jordan D inar, wh ich is pegged to the SDR at JD 0.388 = SDR 1. The middle rate of the Jordan dinar for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined by the Central Bank of Jordan on the basis of the daily calculations of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31,1983 the buy ing and selling rates of the Central Bank for the U .S. dollar were US$2.6990 and US$2.6846, respectively, per JD 1, and those for sterling were £ stg. 1.8580 and £ stg. 1.8471, respectively, per JD 1. Buy ing and selling rates for other foreign currenciesl are fixed on the basis of the appropriate cross rates in international f inanc ial markets. A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Central Bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved ins t i tu t ions. Forward exchange transactions in U .S. dollars against the Jordan dinar are permitted in specified cases. For corporations or projects of vital national interest, the Central Bank may offer a forward exchange facility in respect of forward exchange cover by Jordanian banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank, which also issues exchange permits; the Central Bank has delegated to authorized banks the issuance of exchange permits for import payments and, w i th in permitted annual limits, for payments for educational expenses of Jordanians studying abroad and for various other purposes. An Import Committee comprising repre- sentatives of the Ministries of Industry and Trade and of Finance and Customs and of the Central Bank reviews import policy. In addition, an Economic Security Com- mittee is empowered to amend existing regulations or issue new ones concerning economic policy. Prescription of Currency Outward payments may be made in any currency. Proceeds from exports (except those of Jordanian goods to neighboring Arab countries or, excluding f ru i ts and vegetables, up to JD 500 to other countries) and invisibles must be collected, and surrendered where required, in any convertible currency through an autho- rized bank in Jordan, or from a nonresident account w i th an authorized bank in Jordan. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in 'Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Swedish kroner, and Swiss f rancs. 292 domestic currency; these accounts may be credited only w i th approved f u n d s. The approval of the Central Bank is necessary for transfers from resident to nonresident accoun ts, but transfers between nonresident accounts are permitted free ly. In addition, nonresidents, including Jordanians working abroad, may freely open interest- bearing foreign currency accounts with authorized banks. Balances on these accounts may be withdrawn freely in convertible currency, and the interest rate is fixed in accordance w i th rates prevailing in international markets. Jordanian na t iona ls residing in Jordan may maintain foreign currency deposits with licensed banks in Jordan, provided that such deposit accounts are credited w i th foreign currencies from any source and that the total of the deposits that any one person holds does not exceed the equ iva lent of JD 30,000. Jordanians who have worked abroad for more than three years and have decided to return may open accounts in foreign cur- rencies w i thout l im i ts for a period of up to five years, after wh ich the deposits in excess of the equivalent of JD 30,000 must be converted into Jordan dinars. Foreign Currency Accounts Deposit accounts denominated in foreign currency may be opened at the Central Bank by governmental and semigovernmental en t i t ies, as well as the specialized lending in s t i tu t ion s, licensed finance companies, and domestic corporations of vital national interest (includ- ing those companies in wh ich the Government owns more than 25 percent of the capital), provided that outstanding balances (including interest earnings) in each account do not exceed JD 1.0 million. This ceiling could be raised to JD 3.0 m i l l ion in certain cases. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items2 from any source, and all imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. All other imports, unless covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting country ( i .e ., agricultural products from neighboring countries), require import licenses if the ir c. & f. value exceeds JD 100. These are granted freely by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and are subject to a fee of 4 percent of the c. & f. value payable on the issue of the import license. Imports that require an import license also require an exchange permit, wh ich is granted automatically when an import license has been obtained; the importer holding an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of 0.10 percent is 2These i n c l u de carbonic acid; some nonalcoholic beverages; ciga- rettes; secondhand passenger cars and buses that are more than five years old; and m i l i ta ry un i fo rm s. Certain of these commodities may be imported, however, from Arab Common Market countries and from countries w i th w h i ch trade agreements are in force. Imports of barley, len t i l s, o l ive o i l, and some other agricultural commodities may be p roh ib i ted in good crop years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution levied on exchange permits for imports, except those made by government departments and certain approved institutions and ind iv idual permits of less than JD 500. The use of suppliers' credits is subject to prior central bank approval, which normally is given for essential imports only. In addition to import duties, a surcharge of 13 percent of the duty-paid va lue is levied on most imports to finance social welfare and the development of certain public facilities. Imports to Free Zones Outward payments to cover imports to free zones and transit trade require exchange permits; such permits are subject to a fee of 0.10 percent. As these imports are re- exported, the value of those permits p lus a m i n im um profit of 5 percent must be returned to Jordan in foreign currency through an authorized bank in the Kingdom. Payments for Invisibles Remittances by postal order do not require exchange control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a month (JD 100 a person a month for Kuw a it and Jordanian students in Yugos lav ia, JD 50 for the United Kingdom, and US$125 for A lger ia). Paymen ts for the following types of invisibles are generally permitted w i th in certain l im i ts: remittances to res iden ts' dependents; reasonable l iv ing expenses of Jordan ian nationals abroad; expenses of Jordanian residents travel- ing abroad; educational expenses; expenses for medical treatment; business expenses abroad; and insurance payments in accordance w i th special regu la t ions .3 A fee of 0.10 percent is levied on exchange permits for invisible payments except those of government de- partments and certain approved in s t i tu t ion s, permits fi- nanced from nonresident accounts in foreign cu r rency, and those with a value under JD 500. No l im it exists on the remittance of income accrued to nonresidents or savings of foreign nationals who intend to return to the ir own countries. The exchange allowance for business and tourist travel is the equivalent of JD 5,000 a person (JD 500 for children under 18). These allowances are granted an- nua l ly for one or more trips. For f am i ly support, an annual allowance of JD 5,000 for each beneficiary is permitted; however, remittances by postal order may be made for amounts not exceeding the equ iva lent of JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad (JD 100 a month for Kuwa it and Jordanian s tuden ts in Yugos lav ia, JD 50 for the United K ingdom, and US$125 for Algeria), and are not subject to th is ce i l ing. The policy in respect of payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. In practice, the Central Bank does not restrict remittances of income accruing to nonresidents or of savings of foreign na t iona ls re tu rn ing to their own country. JORDAN In addition to any travel allocation, residents and nonresidents traveling abroad may take-out up to JD 300 in Jordanian notes and coin and any amount in foreign notes and coin, provided these are for their own use. Nonresidents work ing in Jordan can transfer 70 percent of their salaries if they maintain a nonresident Jordanian dinar account; if they do not have such accounts, they can transfer up to JD 100 monthly w i th a total amount not exceeding JD 1,200 annua l ly. Furthermore, all travelers may take out checks, traveler's checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan, in accordance w i th exchange permits authorized by the Central Bank. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coin and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared to the customs authorities at the time of entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds must be collected and the foreign exchange surrendered w i th in six months of shipment. Exempt from th is requirement are the proceeds from exports of Jordan ian products to neighboring Arab countries, and proceeds of up to JD 500 from exports (exc lud ing f ru i ts and vegetables) to other countries. Exporters and residents of Jordan are not permitted to maintain bank balances abroad for any purpose. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank or, if bank notes and trave ler's checks are received, to an authorized bank or to an authorized exchange dealer. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in any amount in Jordanian and foreign notes and co in .4 Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any foreign currency at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported free ly, but exports of capital requ ire approval and are not normally allowed, except that the Central Bank is prepared to examine applications by banks, insurance companies, industrial or trading f irms, and contractors for permission to transfer funds abroad for specified investment or operating purposes. Current income resu l t ing from nonresident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Inves tmen t, profits from approved foreign inves tmen ts may be remitted, w i thout l im i ta t ion, in any convertible currency. Af ter two years, repatriation of the capital is permitted in three equal annual install- ments in any convertible currency. The Investment Committee may approve more liberal provisions, and All insurance must be taken out in Jordan, but fore ign exchange is granted for prem iums in respect of in su rance contracts conc luded prior to May 1965. 4Approval is not g iv en for the c red i t ing of such Jordanian currency to a non res ident account or for the rem i t tance abroad of the equ iva lent in fo re ign cu r r en cy. 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN exchange permits are granted accordingly. The Compa- nies Registration Law No. 46 of 1975 provides var ious benefits for foreign companies es tab l ish ing branches in Jordan for the purpose of conducting bus iness outside the country; such branches may also be granted nonresident status for exchange control purposes. Prem ium Devel- opment Bonds denominated in Jordan dinars may be purchased w i th convertible currencies by nonresidents; maturity proceeds, prem iums, and interest are transfer- able in any convertible currency. Gold The Central Bank has issued ten gold coins. These coins, although legal tender, do not circulate and are available only to nonresidents and domestic num i sma- tists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for num isma t ic or inves tment purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized indus tr ial users are no t, in pr inc ip le, allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry are issued by the Ministry of Indus try and Trade on the recommendation of the Central B ank, wh i le exports of gold in any form require a license from the Central B ank. Changes During 1983 Payments for Invisibles August 1. A fee of 0 .10 percent was levied on exchange permits for inv is ib le paymen ts. Exports and Export Proceeds September I. The exemption from the repatriation requ i remen t, granted in respect of foreign exchange proceeds from re-exports of goods valued at less than JD 1,500 was term ina ted. 294 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kenya is the Kenya S h i l l i n g, wh i ch is pegged to the SDR at K Sh 14.42 = SDR 1. The m idd le rate of the Kenya s h i l l i ng for the U . S. do l lar quoted by the Central Bank is determined on the basis of the d a i ly U . S. dollar-SDR rate. The Cen tral B a n k 's b u y i ng and selling rates are each set at 0 .15 percent below and above the rate thus de te rm ined. On December 31, 1983 b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the U . S. do l lar were K Sh 13.7500 and K Sh 13 .7914, re spec t ive ly, per US $ 1. Buy ing arid s e l l i ng rates for certain other cu r r en c i e s' are de term ined on the bas is of appropriate New York closing rates. The Cen t ral Bank does not deal in other foreign currenc ies, except occas iona l ly on beha lf of the Governmen t. Add i t ion al e f fec t ive exchange rates arise from an advance import deposit scheme. The Central B ank deals up to s ix mon ths forward w i th commerc ial banks in s te r l ing and U . S. do l lars to cover the ir contracts w i th expor ters and impor ters; comme rc ial banks may cover t h e ir forward exchange contracts in outside marke ts in other fore ign cu r renc ies aga inst U . S. dollars or pounds s t e r l ing. Administration of Control The M in i s t er of F inance and P l a n n i ng has delegated the adm in i s t ra t ion of exchange control to the Cen tral Bank. A u t h o r i ty is delegated to the au thor ized banks for approv ing certain paymen ts for impor ts, m any paymen ts for current inv i s ib l e s, and some cap i tal p aym en t s. Import and export controls are adm in is te red by the Director of In te rnal Trade in the M i n i s t ry of Commerce and Indu s t ry. The respons ib i l i ty for i s s u i ng import and export licenses rests w i th the Director, to whom app l ica- tions mu st be subm i t ted by the importer or the exporter in Kenya before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. App l ica t ions for the a l loca t ion of fore ign exchange for imports are fo rwa rded by the D irec tor of In ternal Trade to the Central B a n k. The quo ta system is adm in is tered by the Import Management Comm i t tee (IMC) and the O f f ic ial Import Comm i t tee (O IC ), both of wh ich are composed of represen ta t ives from the M in i s- tries of Finance and P l a n n i n g, Commerce and Indu s t ry, and the Central B ank. The IMC, und er the M in i s t ry of Commerce and I n d u s t r y, allocates quotas to i n d i v i d u al importers, w h i le the OIC, und er the M i n i s t ry of Finance and P l a n n i n g, sets global quo tas. The governmen t- owned Kenya N a t ion al T rad ing Corporation, L td. has a monopoly over the import of specified commod i t ies, and the export of certain ag r icu l tu ral commod i t ies is con- trolled by State Ma rke t ing Boards. ' B u r u n di f r a n c s, C an ad i an d o l l a r s, d eu t s che m a r k, E t h i o p i an b i r r, French f rancs, I t a l i an l i r e, Japanese y e n, N e t h e r l a n ds g u i l d e r s, No rweg ian k ron e r, pounds s t e r l i n g, Rw a n da f r a n c s, Sw a z i l a nd em a l ang en i, Swed ish kroner, Sw i ss f r a n c s, T a n z a n ia s h i l l i n g s, Ug an- d an s h i l l i n g s, a nd Z am b i an kw a c h a. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts to residents of coun tr ies other than South A f r ica may be made in Kenya sh i l l ings to the credit of an Ex ternal Account in Kenya or in any foreign currency. Receipts may be obtained in Kenya sh i l l ings from an Ex te rnal Account in Kenya or in any marke tab le foreign cu r rency. Rem i t tances to South A f r ica are prohibited, w i th the excep t ion of pens ions payab le by the Govern- ment of K eny a. Nonresident Accounts Accoun ts in K e n ya s h i l l i n gs held by residents of coun t r ies other th an Sou th A f r ica w i th authorized banks in Kenya are, w i th exchange control approval, desig- nated Ex te rnal Accoun ts. They may be credited freely w i th au thor ized paymen ts to such countries by residents of K e n y a, w i th t rans fe rs from other Ex ternal Accounts, and w i th the proceeds from sales of any currency (other than Sou th A f r i c an cu r rency) and gold by nonresidents to au thor ized dealers. Ex te rnal Accoun ts may be debited f ree ly for paymen ts to res iden ts and nonres iden ts. Non t ran s fe rab le f u n ds of nonres iden ts are credited to Blocked Accoun t s. Subject to prescribed procedures, ba lances on Blocked Accoun ts (other than those in the bene f ic ial owne r sh ip of res iden ts of South Afr ica) may be used for approved domestic expend i tures and for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Gove rnment or by local au tho r i t ies and o f f i c i a l ly quoted in K e n y a .2 The redemp t ion proceeds of these securities are t rans fe rab le, and in terest is freely transferable to non re s iden ts as and when it accrues. Imports and Import Payments A ll impor ts from South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. A ll imports are c l a s s i f i ed in to three schedules (Schedules I, I IA, and I I B) and are subject to import l icen s ing. A ll p r iva te sector impor ts requ i re a license for the allocation of fore ign exchange, issued j o i n t ly by the Director of In te rnal Trade and the Central B a n k. App l ica t ions must be approved before f i rm orders are placed. Schedu le I consists of a l ist of h igh -p r io r i ty i tems, i n c l u d i ng a subschedu le IA of i tems for wh ich licenses are au tom a t i c a l ly approved by the Director of Internal Trade, and fore ign exchange is allocated by the Central B a n k. Quotas are applied to i tems under subschedule IB. There is a t r igger sys tem whereby items may be transferred from low p r io r i ty schedu les to h igh priority schedu les, or v ice versa, depend ing on the level of o f f ic ial reserves. Subschedu le IIA is subd iv ided into I IA - s p e c i a l, wh i ch inc ludes h igh-pr ior i ty items whose impo r ta t ion requ i res au tho r iza t ion by a state agency, and I IA -o rd in a ry, w h i ch comprises n o n l u x u ry consumer 2S u ch s e c u r i t i es m u st be p ay ab le in K e n ya s h i l l i n gs and they mu st not be redeemab le e a r l i er t h an f i ve years from the da te of a cqu i s i t ion. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA goods. Subschedule IIB contains items that are domes- tically produced or whose substitutes are available from domestic industry, and luxury consumer goods. Importa- tion of items in subschedules IIA and IIB is limited to importers who have been granted foreign exchange quotas. Quotas for the high-priority items in subschedule IIA-special are set so as to satisfy expected demand, and import licenses up to the quotas are given automatically. The importers' quotas for items in subschedule IIA-ordinary are flexible, in that they are usable for any items within that category, provided that an import license has been issued. The importers' quotas for subschedule IIB, on the other hand, are item-specific. Applications for foreign exchange allocation licenses for imports are subject to a charge of 1 percent of the amount of the application; the fee is refundable if such applica- tions are not approved. When an exchange allocation license has been ob- tained from the Central Bank or when such a license is not required, authorized banks are permitted to provide exchange against documents, but normally not prior to customs entry. Prior exchange control approval must be obtained for imports of capital goods on deferred payment terms, and for imports of machinery and equipment, which are regarded as a contribution toward capital or are to be accounted for on a loan basis. With the exception of imports from Tanzania, Uganda, and some other countries, most imports w i th an f .o .b. value in excess of K Sh 25,000 are subject to preshipment inspection as to qua l i ty, quan t i ty, and price by the Societe Generate de Surveillance (SGS) of Geneva acting for the Central Bank. A "Clean Report of Findings" must be obtained before shipment, and autho- rized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clearance of imports until this "Clean Report" has been received. All goods purchased by importers in Kenya must be insured with companies licensed to transact insurance business in Kenya. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments without limitation or up to established limits. Amounts above these limits as well as other current payments may be approved administratively, and most current payments are in practice unrestricted. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 24,000 a person for a fu ll scholastic year3 and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon presentation of evidence of debt. The Central Bank may approve higher remittances for education expenses. Foreign nationals who work in Kenya as employed persons (as well as certain categories of the self-employed, such as doctors and dentists) for not more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to one 3Authorized dealers are not allowed to remit any funds for educational support to students at primary or secondary schools who were not abroad in the 1975—76 academic year. 296 third of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 4,000 a month; in addition, they may remit funds to cover maintenance, education expenses, etc., provided that their total remittances including savings do not exceed one half of their monthly salaries. Expatriates who have stayed for over four years may continue to remit from salaries as above, up to the end of the tenth year of their residence in Kenya, but in that case they are not entitled to transfer additional savings upon emigra- tion within that period. Remittances to South Africa, other than certain pensions, are prohibited. Nonresident individual property owners may remit up to K Sh 20,000 of net rental income in each 12-month period. Any excess of net rent over the permitted transfer is placed in a Blocked Account and may be invested in approved securities with at least five years to maturity, after which period the redemption proceeds may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. Real estate companies deriving income solely from rent are per- mitted to transfer annually up to 10 percent of the book value of their properties as at September 25, 1970, or an amount not exceeding 10 percent of issued capital. Where income is derived from rent as well as other sources, applications must be made to the exchange control authorities for approval of remittance of such incomes. Exchange control approval is required for outward remittance of profits and dividends on nonresi- dent equity holdings. The basic allowance for travel by adults holding round-trip tickets is K Sh 4,000 a person (K Sh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every two years, which may be taken out in foreign bank notes. Holders of one-way tickets who have been granted emigration status or final departure rights are not entitled to the basic travel allowance but to an allowance of K Sh 2,000 a person. The basic allowance is not available for travel to South Africa. Business travelers to Tanzania and Uganda are granted an allowance of up to K Sh 400 a night for a maximum period of ten days at a time. Business travelers to other countries are granted an allowance of up to K Sh 1,000 a day for a max imum period of 20 days. There is a once-only hajj pilgrimage allowance of K Sh 10,000 for adults, which is available only to persons who have not utilized the basic travel allowance w i th in the preceding two years. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Residents of Kenya traveling abroad on international flights and holding return tickets may carry up to K Sh 100 with them for local expenses on return, but otherwise the export of Kenya bank notes is prohibited. Temporarily, all sales of tickets to Kenya residents for nongovernmental travel outside Kenya are subject to exchange control approval. Applications for travel tickets must be accompanied by a deposit of 10 percent of the value of the air ticket and 5 percent of the sea ticket, returnable only if the applications are not approved. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are p roh ib i ted. All regu lar exporters must be registered w i th the Central B ank. Exports of certain foods tuffs and ag r i cu l tu r al products require licenses and may be subject to res tr ic t ion to ensure adequate supp l ies in the domestic ma rke t. Ex- ports of tea, coffee, m inera ls, precious stones, and other essential strategic ma ter ia ls are also subject to special licensing. Most other goods may be exported w i thout special licenses other than exchange control approval. Coffee is exported th rough the Coffee Ma rke t ing Board. Export proceeds in foreign currencies mu st be collected w i th in three mon ths of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Kenya for conversion into Kenya sh i l l ings. Exports of manu fac tu red goods w i th at least 30 percent domestic value added are e l ig ib le for compen- sation equ iva lent to 10 percent of the f .o .b. va lue; exporters w i th annual export receipts in excess of the preceding year's performance are entitled to a 15 percent compensation. All exports other than coffee, tea, sugar, sisal, py re th rum, ho r t icu l tu ral products, pe t ro leum prod- ucts, soda ash, and most goods not subject to import du ty are covered by the export compensation scheme. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Nonres iden ts mu st settle hotel b i l ls in fore ign currency or aga inst an Ex te rnal Account. Travelers may br ing in free ly fore ign currency notes, except those of Tanzan ia and Uganda. The import of domestic bank notes is p roh ib i ted, except that resi- dents re turn ing to Kenya may b r ing in up to K Sh 100 previously taken out by themselves. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are restricted. Trans- fers to South Afr ica are not allowed. W i th the exception of expatriate employees who have opted for rem i t tance of savings from salaries, an em ig rant is allowed to transfer up to K Sh 300,000 a fam i ly u n it from his declared assets as a se t t l ing - in a l lowance to the new country of residence. Of th is sum, K Sh 100,000 is made available for immediate rem i t tance and the rema inder w i ll be authorized for rem i t tance in not more than f ive annual in s ta l lmen ts not exceeding the e q u i v a l e nt of K Sh 40,000 each year. The i n i t i al s e t t l ing - in a l lowance of K Sh 100,000 lapses if it is not rem i t ted w i t h in the first two years of the em ig ran t 's depar ture from K eny a. KENYA All r em a i n i ng f u n ds m u st be credited to a Blocked Accoun t; they may then be inves ted in approved securi- t ies, and redemp t ion proceeds become t rans fe rab le, provided that redemp t ion does not take place earlier than f ive years from the date of purchase. If assets in Kenya are va lued at K Sh 1 m i l l i on or more, they must be l iqu id a t ed before any exchange control approvals are sought and the proceeds m u st be invested in prescribed secur i t ies. The inve s tment of fo re ign funds in Kenya is not gene ra l ly restricted, but to ensure even tual repatriation it is necessary to obtain from the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the inv e s tm en t. Foreign and domestic inv e s tm ent in specified types of production requires approva l. Local borrow ing by nonres iden t- owned or non res iden t -con t ro l led compan ies, as we ll as borrowing by res iden ts from nonres iden ts, requires exchange control approval and is restricted. All impor ts and exports of securities requ ire approval. Approval is granted for the purchase by nonresidents of K eny an securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that p aym ent is received in an appropriate manne r. The income from such secur i t ies is rem i t tab le, but the proceeds on resale must no rma l ly be credited to a Blocked Account un l e ss they are re inves ted. Residents are not no rma l ly pe rm i t ted to purchase foreign secu r i t ies. Gold Res iden ts may ho ld and acqu ire gold coins in Kenya for n um i sm a t ic purposes. W i th th is excep t ion, residents other th an the monetary au tho r i t ies and authorized i n d u s t r i al and profess ional users are not a l lowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other th an jewe l ry con s t i tu t ing the personal effec ts of a trave ler requ ire exchange control app rova l. Import licenses for gold b u l l i on ( ingo t s, bars, or sheets) are issued res tr ic t ive ly and on ly to go ld sm i th s, and imports of gold coin are not be ing l icensed. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments June 23. The import l i c en s ing system was revised to restore a subschedu le of f ree ly impor tab le i tems, and a t ime tab le was es tab l ished for fu r th er import l ibera l iza- t ion in the form of w i d e n i ng of t h is subschedu le by means of f u t u re t ran s fer of add i t ional i tems from other schedu les. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Korea is the Korean Won, wh ich is linked to a multicurrency basket (consisting of a trade- weighted basket and the SDR basket), but other factors are also taken into account if necessary. The Bank of Korea establishes daily the exchange rate of the won in terms of the U .S. dollar, which is the intervention currency. On December 31, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates of the Bank of Korea for the U .S. dollar were W 793.90 and W 797.10, respectively, per US$1, and the telegraphic transfer buy ing and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were W 793.50 and W 797.50, respectively, per US$1. The buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies are posted daily by foreign exchange banks on the basis of buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transac- tions not only in foreign currencies but also between the Korean won and foreign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of forward contracting in respect of interbank transactions. In forward contracts between the Korean won and foreign currencies, the terms of forward contracts between a foreign exchange bank and a nonbank customer cannot exceed one year. In addition, a forward contract between a foreign exchange bank and a nonbank resident customer must be related to a bona fide transaction and the contract amount must not exceed the expected receipt or payment on the transaction. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance initiates policy w i th respect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchan- dise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. It also prepares and administers the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand P lan, which sets overall ceilings on the amounts of foreign exchange that may be used. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes most of the above func t ions; it also regulates operations in the exchange market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has been delegated authority to control payments related to invisibles and certain capital transac- tions. The foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of foreign banks, are authorized to engage in commercial international bank ing and in all foreign exchange dealings, w i th the exception of those specifically prohibited. The trade program for imports financed from Korea's own foreign exchange resources (KFX) is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try. Imports financed by foreign loans are drawn up separately by the Ministry of Finance in consultation with the Ministry of 298 Commerce and Industry. Import licenses are issued by the foreign exchange banks. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other countries are made in convertible currencies. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, including Korean workers abroad, may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon depar- ture from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remittances abroad or transfer to other foreign currency accounts, or for remittances from remuneration for services in Korea, purchases of other foreign means of payment, or sales to a foreign exchange bank in exchange for domestic means of payment or payments for approved transactions. The deposit may be disposed of by sale to a foreign exchange bank at the prevailing exchange rate and may be debited for salaries paid to foreign employees. All residents are allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts. The holders of these accounts may change the currency composition of these accounts as they w ish. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses; for certain imports (see below), licenses are issued upon application. Imports are divided into two categories: those paid for with Korean foreign exchange (KFX imports) and those paid for with foreign loan fund s. KFX imports are classified as automatic approval or restricted items. All commodities may be imported freely ( i .e ., applications for import licenses are automatically approved), unless they are on a list of restricted items, subject to the general limits set by the Foreign Exchange Supply and Demand Plan. On December 31, 1983, out of 7,560 basic items in the Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature (CCCN), 1,482 were classified as restricted items.2 Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are nor- mally approved automatically, irrespective of their classification. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders; to maintain the status of a registered trader, a minimum ' In addition to the Hong Kong dollar and the Swiss franc, the list of prescribed currencies comprises the currencies of the member countries of the IMF that have accepted the obligations of Article VIII of the Fund 's Articles of Agreement. 2On January 1, 1984, the total number of basic items was changed to 7 ,915, bringing the number of restricted import items on the list to 1,529. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution value of US$1 million of exports is required each year for ordinary exporters. The commercial terms of payment on wh i ch imports may be contracted are regulated. The requirement for advance import deposits ranging from 5 percent to 20 percent for goods imported by the private sector on a deferred payment basis has been suspended w i th the reduction of the percentage to zero beg inn ing in Febru- ary 1982. The customs tariff is a "flexible" ta r i f f. Furthermore, the Government may alter import du ty rates administra- tively by up to 40 percentage points. The Government also has authority to impose import surcharges of up to 30 percent on all du t iab le imports, but by the end of 1983 it had not invoked this au tho r i ty. A defense surcharge of 2.5 percent ad valorem is levied on most goods, whe ther locally produced or imported. Payments for Invisibles All payments for inv is ib les require ind iv idual li- censes. Payments for inv is ib les connected w i th foreign trade and for certain other items such as bank ing charges, insurance p rem iums, commun ica t ion fees, and periodicals are licensed au toma t ica l ly. In add i t ion, Ko- rean companies are authorized to use foreign exchange for the expenses of their overseas branches. Residents traveling abroad may purchase foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of US$3,000 each tr ip as the basic travel allowance plus US$200 a day (if the period of travel is in excess of 10 days ), or up to US$2,000 as a mon th ly allowance for l iv ing expenses (if the period of travel is in excess of 60 days), and may also purchase additional foreign exchange for extra expenses. The basic ind iv idual travel allowance for students is US$2,000; for others, inc lud ing Koreans work ing abroad, it is US$1,000. Korean currency notes in excess of W 500,000 and foreign currency notes may not be exported without special permission. Nonresidents must register the foreign exchange that they bring in to Korea if the amount exceeds the equ iva lent of US$5,000. Upon leaving the country, foreign residents and tourists may acquire foreign exchange up to the amount for wh ich they have proof of exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports on a restricted list require ind iv idual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an automatic approval procedure. Foreign exchange pro- ceeds from exports must either be surrendered to a foreign exchange bank at its posted customer rate or be deposited in foreign exchange accounts in banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds derived from inv is ib les must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank for won or be deposited in foreign exchange accounts in the banks. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange, but the KOREA import by travelers of Korean currency in excess of W 500,000 is restricted. The proceeds received by construction companies from construction activity abroad must be deposited in foreign currency accounts, and the conversion of these deposits is subject to approval by a foreign exchange bank, for ascertaining the bona fides of the transactions; approval is given v ir tua l ly automatically. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Foreign capital inves tmen t, loans from abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guarantee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Capital Inducement Ac t. No l im i ts are placed on the conversion and remittance of legitimate profits and d iv idends, or on the repatriation of the original capital invested, but proposed remittances must be notified to the M in is try of Finance 90 days prior to the end of the fiscal year. No prior approval is required to hold abroad retained profits not exceeding US$10,000 from Korean direct invest- ment overseas. Under the Foreign Capital Inducement Ac t, authorization is required for borrowing abroad of more than US$1 m i l l ion w i th maturities in excess of three years; for borrowings under US$1 m i l l ion repay- able w i th in three years, authorization is required under the Foreign Exchange Control Ac t. There is a limit of US$100,000 on ind iv idual borrowings from foreign branches of Korean banks by Koreans l iv ing abroad. Foreign bank branches in Korea can enter into swap transactions w i th the Bank of Korea to secure funds for their domestic currency lend ing. Foreign exchange allowance for emigrants is subject to a l im it of US$100,000 for each household. Foreign exchange banks may grant authorization for such remittances up to US$20,000; for remittances over US$20,000 authoriza- tion from the Bank of Korea is required. Gold Certain commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not c ircu la te. Residents may freely b u y, hold, and sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Bank of Korea or a foreign exchange bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. The import of gold for indus tr ial or medical purposes requires approval by a foreign exchange bank. Domestically produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. The free market price at pub l ic gold auctions was about W 11.00 a gram at the end of 1983. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments May 20. E l ig ib i l i ty for imports on deferred payment basis was limited to goods w i th tariff rates not exceeding 30 percent (prev ious ly, all goods were eligible). In 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA addition, the max imum term for import payment on deferred basis was shortened from 180 days to 150 days. July 1. Changes were made in the import system as follows: (a) import restrictions were l i f ted on 305 items; (b) import tariff rates were raised on 62 items; and (c) the Government increased from 12 to 104 the number of commodities subject to emergency ta r i f fs w i th the aim of preventing an excessive inf low of certain foreign goods as a result of import l ibera l iza t ion. October 21. A fishery agreement w i th Japan, due to expire October 31, 1983, was extended through Octo- ber 31, 1986. December 1. The m ax imum term for import payment on deferred basis was shortened to 120 days. December 2. The Tariff Act was amended, w i th effect from January 1, 1984, invo lv ing phased changes in tariffs dur ing the period 1984-88. The unde r ly ing objective was to strengthen the international competi- tiveness of Korea's indus tr ies by e l im ina t ing excess protection, reducing the dispersion of tar iff rates, and reducing tariffs on raw materials. The modifications were (a) in regard to the objective of e l im in a t ing excess protection: tariff reductions on 734 of 2,301 du t iab le items in 1984 and on 982 du t iab le items by 1988, w i th a cut in the average tar iff rate from 22.6 percent to 20.6 percent in 1984 and to 16.9 percent in 1988; (b) in regard to reduction of the dispersion in tar iff rates: restructuring in 1984 of the tariff rates from the overall range of 0-150 percent to compressed subranges of 5 —10 percent for raw ma ter ia ls, 20-30 percent for intermediate products, and 40—50 percent for consumer goods; by 1988 the rate were scheduled to be in the range of 5-10 percent for raw materials, 20 percent for intermediate and capital goods, and 20-30 percent for consumer goods; and (c) in regard to the reduction of tariff rates on raw materials: major reduc t ions in the tariff rates on basic raw ma ter ia ls, accompanied by a cut from 10 percent to 5 percent in the tar iff rates on raw materials not adequa te ly produced or not at all supplied domestically ( inc lud ing liquefied na tu ral and petroleum gas (LNG and LPG), pu lp, and iron py r i te s ), and a decrease from 15—30 percent to 10 percent in the tariff rates on domestically available raw materials ( inc lud ing natural rubber, yellow phosphorus, and methanol). In addition, a m in imum rate of 1 percent was imposed on mining products ( inc lud ing iron ore, copper ore, and fuel coal) wh ich had so far been du ty free, t h us mak ing all imported items subject to some amount of customs du ty. December 22. With effect from J anu a ry 1, 1984, 77 items were eliminated from the list of items subject to emergency tariff rates, and 11 items were added, thereby reducing the number of items on the list to 38 i tems. December 22. W i th effect from Janua ry 1, 1984, import restrictions were l if ted on 31 add i t ional i tem s. December 31. It was announced tha t, w i th effect from January 1, 1984, no import du t ies wou ld be imposed on the following items: (a) samples, tes t ing equ ipmen t, books and other materials imported by pub l ic entities for purposes of scientific research, educa t ion, 300 and experiments; (b) nine types of chemicals for the preparation of contraceptives; (c) devices for use by disabled people, inc lud ing typewriters for the blind, compasses, timers, artificial l imbs, carriages, and artifi- cial kidneys; and (d) earth excavators imported for re- export purposes after one to two years of domestic use. Exports and Export Proceeds October 21. A fishery agreement w i th Japan, due to expire October 31, 1983, was extended through Octo- ber 31, 1986. Proceeds from Invisibles December 26. It was announced that new foreign exchange regulations would come into force from Jan- uary 1, 1984 p rov id ing, inter alia, for the following changes: (a) banks in provincial areas would be allowed to honor in terna t ional credit cards held by foreign visitors; and (b) arriving foreign visitors would be required to declare personal foreign currency holdings in excess of US$5,000 (previously US$10,000). Capital May 1. L im i ta t ions were abolished on the eligibility of foreign currencies for forward transactions against the Korean won. (Previously e l ig ib i l i ty was limited to the U .S. do l lar, the pound sterling, the deutsche mark, and the Japanese yen .) November 7. L im i ta t ions on the terms of swap trans- actions between the Bank of Korea and foreign bank branches were abolished, thereby permitting long-term swaps w i th ma tur i t ies of more than one year. November 30. A regulation was introduced requiring domestic banks to finance over 70 percent (previously 50 percent) of their long-term (over 3 years) foreign currency loans in long-term fund s, so as to strengthen the long-term capital inducement of domestic banks. December 31. It was announced that a new Foreign Capital Inducement Act would come into force on J u ly 1, 1984, u n i f y i ng the following three laws on incen t ives for capital inf low: the previous Foreign Capital Inducement Act (governing inducement of com- mercial loans, foreign direct investment, and foreign technology transfer), the Public Loan Inducement and Management Ac t, and the Foreign Capital Management Act (governing management of public loans and foreign a id). The major change concerned regulations on the in f low of foreign direct investment: first, in place of the current positive list system, a negative list system would be in troduced, under wh ich foreign investment would be allowed in all industries except those specified in the negative l i s t; and second, approval procedures would be s imp l i f ied by in troduc ing an automatic approval system in wh ich projects meeting the fo l low ing criteria would be granted automatic approval: (a) projects not in the negative list; (b) projects of wh ich a certain proportion (to be decided by presidential decree) of the products wou ld be exported, or in wh ich comparable import of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution item to be produced had been liberalized and the tar iff rate was below a specified level (to be decided by presidential decree), or in which the proposed foreign ownership ratio was less than 50 percent; (c) projects not involving special tax preferences additional to those given to all firms in Korea; and (d) projects invo lv ing investments below a certain level (to be decided by presidential decree). Third, various improvements were to be made in the operating rules, inc lud ing those bearing on restrictions on disinvestment, reinvestment of retained earnings, and the incentive period for capital in f low s. In addition, in place of the current approval sys tem, a reporting system would be adopted for most foreign technology licensing agreements. KOREA 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kuw a it is the Kuw a i ti D ina r. The exchange va lue of the Kuw a i ti d inar is determined on the basis of the f ixed but ad jus tab le re la t ionsh ip between the Kuwa i ti d inar and a we igh ted basket of currencies of K uw a i t 's major trading partners. For exchange transac- tions w i th local banks in the in terven t ion cu r rency, the U .S. dollar, the Central Bank of K uw a it no rma l ly sets margins of 0.0625 percent on either side of the middle rate. The Central Bank sets the rate for the U .S. do l lar each day on the basis of the latest ava i lab le ma rket quo ta t ions for that currency in relation to the other currencies inc luded in the basket. On December 3 1, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. do l lar were KD 0.29186 and KD 0 .29222, respec t ive ly, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On Apr il 5, 1963 K uw a it fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2 , 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange con tro l, and residents and nonresidents may free ly purchase and sell foreign cur- rencies in K uw a i t. Dealings in the currencies of Israel and South Afr ica are p roh ib i ted .' General and i n d i v i d u al import licenses are issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Indus t ry. A limited control over exports is adm in i s- tered by the M in is try of Commerce and Indu s t ry and the Customs and Ports Adm in i s t r a t ion. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requ i remen t s. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may free ly open accounts in K uw a i ti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all commercial im- ports other than fresh f ru it and vegetables; licenses are issued free ly to registered K uw a i ti merchan ts and com- panies, except for whea t, f lou r, and asbestos pipes. Registered importers hand l ing a variety of commodities may obtain a general license va l id for one year. Other importers mu st obtain specific licenses for i n d i v i d u al commodities, wh ich also are va l id for one year. Imports of indus t r ial equ ipmen t, mach ine ry, and the ir spare parts require indus t r ial licenses, valid for one-time use. Licenses are issued to registered and licensed indu s t r i al ' In a d d i t i o n, a ll imports from these coun t r ies and a ll exports to them are p roh ib i ted; paymen ts may not be made to them or be rece ived from them for any type of t r an s a c t ion. 302 es tab l ishmen ts af ter the approval of the Indus tr ial Devel- opment Commission at the Ministry of Commerce and I n d u s t r y. Private imports of personal objects may be permitted under i n d i v i d u al or specific licenses. Importa- t ion of ce r ta in i tems (m a i n ly oxygen, certain steel and asbestos p ipes, pork or foods tuffs con ta in ing pork, a lcoho l ic beverages, used veh ic les over f ive years old) is p roh ib i ted. Commercial imports are l im i ted to registered import- ers. To be reg is tered, the importer must be either a K uw a i ti c i t izen or a f i rm in wh ich all partners are K uw a i ti na t iona l s, or a shareho ld ing or limited l iab i l i ty company in wh i ch K uw a i ti na t iona ls own at least 51 percent of the s tock. Imports from any permitted source may be paid for f ree ly. Du r ing 1983 customs ta r i f fs con t inued to be used for the protection of dome s t ica l ly produced goods. The m a x im um customs d u ty of 100 percent is imposed on a few commodities compe t ing w i th loca l ly manu fac tu red goods. Imports are subject to customs du ty at a m i n im um rate of 4 percent. Imports of foods tuffs are exempt from import duties. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of l ive sheep and pou l t ry and of certain other items ( such as suga r, fa t s, r ice, mea t, eggs, m i lk, cheese, bu t t e r, o l ive o i l, fresh f r u i t s, vegetables in any fo rm, beans, l en t i l s, ch ick-peas, jam s, and cement) may be prohibited in t ime of emergency or shortage in K uw a i t. These i tems may be exported in limited quan- t i t ies o n l y, under a special license issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus t ry. Exports of arms and ammu- n i t i on requ i re l icenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports: the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of f r e e ly, regardless of the currency invo lv ed. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All paymen ts for current inv is ib les may be made f ree ly. Travelers may br ing in or take out any amount in K uw a i ti or other bank notes. Capital There are no exchange control restraints on the t rans fer to K uw a it of resident or nonresident capital in any cu r rency. Government agreement is necessary for the pa r t ic ipa t ion of nonres ident capital in corporations in K uw a i t, and a license is required for the establishment and operation of indu s t r i es in K uw a i t; at least 51 percent of owne rsh ip of new K uw a i ti companies must be held by na t iona ls. K uw a i ti na t ional ownersh ip in new Kuwa i ti compan ies established w i th the participation of nationals of coun t r ies of the G u lf Cooperation Council must not exceed 25 percent of the cap i tal du r ing the five-year ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT period from 1983, fo l low ing wh ich th is l im it is sched- uled to be removed. No restrictions are imposed on outward capital payments by residents or nonresidents. Dealings in the stocks of foreign companies in the official Kuwa it stock exchange are p roh ib i ted, and foreigners may not buy or sell stocks at th is exchange. Gold The monetary authorities and merchan ts registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Indus t ry may import and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-karat f ine; gold jewe l ry may not be imported or sold unless it is properly h a l lm a rk ed. Kuwa i ti nationals may free ly, and w i thout license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or depar ture, carry the ir ho ld ings of gold in any fo rm, w i thout restriction or license. Jewe lry and precious metals in any form, manu fac tu red or u nm a n u f a c t u r e d, are subject to an import d u ty of 4 percent. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments September 1. In concert w i th other member states of the Gu lf Cooperation Counc il (GCC) (Bah ra in, Oman, Qatar, Saudi A rab ia, and the Un i ted Arab Emirates), and in the in terest of u n i f o rm i t y, K uw a it s tab i l ized i ts import ta r i ff at the p reva i l ing rate of 4 percent, in l ine w i th the GCC M in i s te r ial Counc il Reso lu t ion adopted May 18- 19, 1983, f i x i ng m i n im um tar iff on imports from th ird markets at 4 pe rcen t, w i th a m a x im um of 20 percent beg inn ing from September 1, 1983. 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Lao People's Democratic Re- public is the Kip (KN ), wh ich was introduced by decree on December 10, 1979 to replace the Kip of Liberation at KN 1 = KL 100. On December 31, 1983 the off ic ial exchange rate for the U .S. dollar quoted by the Na t ional Bank of Laos (the central bank) was KN 10 = US$1; this rate is used for customs valuation purposes on ly. With the exception noted below, foreign exchange transactions are effected at a p rem ium exchange rate of KN 35 per US$1. The Lao Bank for Foreign Trade also applies a preferential exchange rate adjusted from t ime to time for its foreign exchange purchases from the private sector and to inward private transfers. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are also o f f ic ia l ly quoted, based on the preferential exchange rate. Administration of Control The Lao Bank for Foreign Trade, a subsidiary of the National Bank, handles all official foreign exchange transactions related to foreign trade and services. All other official transactions are handled by the National Bank, which also administers exchange controls. Most foreign trade has been nationalized and applications for imports through official channels must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce and the M in is t ry of Finance. Private merchants holding business licenses may, how- ever, import and export basic goods under the control of the Foreign Trade Department. The Societe du Commerce Lao (SCL) carries out the actual trade transactions and collects a commission of 2 percent of the c . i . f. value of each export or import transaction. The SCL directly distributes the imported commodities and pays the import taxes. It values merchandise received under foreign aid at the domestic sale price of the product; import taxes on aid imports are levied on 80 percent of this price. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirement is imposed on receipts or payments bu t, in principle, the National Bank provides and accepts only deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss f rancs, and U .S. dollars. The Lao People's Democratic Repub l ic has bilateral trading arrangements covering all commodity trade w i th Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo- cratic Republic, Hungary, the U .S .S .R ., and Viet Nam. The bilateral trading arrangements are for a period of Deutsche mark, French f rancs, Japanese y en, pounds s t e r l ing, and Swiss francs. 304 five years and are implemented through annual pro- tocols, with annual limits on the deficits which Laos can incur for transactions w i th the partner countries; the deficits are in principle to be settled by means of trade transactions w i th in six months from the end of the year of occurrence of the deficit; in some cases, however, such deficits may be converted into long-term loans. Imports and Import Payments The SCL has the monopoly of imports of investment goods, indus t r ial inpu t s, and basic consumer goods. An annual import plan is formulated by the Department of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce, based on requests furn ished by each government m in is try, prov- ince, and state enterprise. In general, priority is given to the import of spare parts, raw materials, machinery, and basic commodities, inc lud ing rice. The import program is reviewed and revised every three months during the fiscal year. An allocation of foreign exchange to a state enterprise lapses at the end of the year if it is not utilized; state enterprises may modify their import requirements du r ing the year, subject to the approval of the Planning Committee. State enterprises must transfer their export earnings to the Na t ional Bank, but once an enterprise has met its planned target for foreign exchange earnings, it may keep 50 percent of additional earnings in a special account at the Na t ional Bank; funds in such special accounts can then be used by the enterprise to import mach ine ry and spare parts, as well as to cover certain prescribed operational expenses in foreign exchange. These amoun ts are not included in the annual import p lan. A s im i l ar provision holds for provincial govern- men ts. The SCL has a monopoly on exports of timber, rice, mineral ore, coffee, cardamom, and stick lac. Ind iv idua ls are allowed to export and import com- modities outside SCL monopoly provided that they subm it a quar ter ly foreign trade plan specifying the way in wh ich their imports w i ll be f inanced. Settlement for imports must be channeled through the Lao Bank for Foreign Trade. Payments for Invisibles There is a foreign exchange budget detailing the Governmen t's paymen ts in foreign exchange during the fiscal year. Paymen ts for all other invisibles are subject to prior authorization by the M in is try of Finance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Export taxes are levied at rates rang ing between 1 percent and 20 percent, depending on the commodity. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the National Bank. Capital There is no foreign inves tment code. All outward capital transactions are proh ib i ted. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement July 1. Au tho r iza t ion was granted for the Lao Bank ^or F°reign Trade to apply a preferential rate, to be adjusted from t ime to t ime, to private inward remittances and sales to th is bank by the private sector "° Imports and Import Payments Residents may buy and sell gold w i th in the coun try but may not take it abroad except by au thor iza t ion of the Lao Bank for Foreign Trade. July 1. A regu la t ion was introduced requ ir ing set- tlements for imports to be channeled through the Lao Bank for Foreign Trade. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lebanon is the Lebanese Pound. The authorities do not maintain margins in respect of ex- change transactions, and exchange rates are determined largely on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to maintain orderly conditions in the exchange market. On December 31, 1983 the rate for the U .S. dollar was LL 5.49 per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The calculation of duties and taxes on goods and services for a given month on amounts invoiced or expressed in foreign currencies is based on the middle rate of those currencies during the previous month. For December 1983 the rate was LL 5.4249 per US$1. Prescription of Currency No restrictions are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some transactions with certain countries with which Lebanon has bilateral payments agreements1 may be made through specific accounts denominated in U .S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (mainly arms and ammun i t ion, narcotics, and similar products) are either prohibited or reserved for the Government. All imports from Israel and Zimbabwe are prohibited. Imports of wheat and wheat derivatives, as well as of certain agricultural products that are produced locally, are either prohibited year-round or during a specified period of the year. Imports prohibited year-round include wheat, wh ich, in principle, may be imported only by the Government, and citrus fru i ts, apples, olives (excluding olives in cans weighing less than 2 kilograms), olive oil, and peanuts; imports prohibited at certain times include squash, eggplant, green beans, watermelons, peas, peaches, and apricots. Imports of certain other agricultural products and all seeds require a license. Import licenses are also required for certain finished goods, sanitary ceramic wares, and electric and telephone wires and cables made of copper. All other commodities may be imported freely without a license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely. Banks are obliged to ensure that import- ers are in possession of a valid import license, if required, before issuing letters of credit. A municipalities tax of 3.5 percent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those originating in an Arab country. A stamp tax is applicable to all imports, except gold and bank notes, at the following rates: LL 2 per mill for import values up to LL 100,000, 'Czechoslovakia, Gu inea, Poland, and Romania; the arrangement w i th Guinea is inoperative, and those w i th Czechoslovakia and Romania are in the process of termination. 306 LL 1.5 per m i ll for import values between LL 100,000 and LL 400,000, and LL 1 per mill for import values exceeding LL 400,000. A surcharge of 10 percent of the applicable import du ty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Surcharges are also levied on motor vehicles, jewe lry, watches, and alcoholic beverages. The rates of surcharge on motor vehicles, based on weight, are 20 piastres a kilogram up to 1,500 kilograms; 30 piastres a kilogram between 1,500 kilograms and 2,000 kilo- grams; and 40 piastres a kilogram over 2,000 kilograms. The rate of surcharge on watches and jewelry is 5 percent, and that on alcoholic beverages is LL 4 a liter, or LL 145 for a case of whiskey containing 12 bottles. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (mainly arms and ammu- n i t ion, narcotics, and similar products) to any destination and all exports to Israel and Zimbabwe are prohibited. Exports of wheat and its derivatives, to any country, and all exports to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea require a license. Exchange receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold through the free market. Banks are permitted to pay interest on nonresident-held deposits denominated in Lebanese pounds. Bank credit in Lebanese pounds to residents for the purchase of foreign exchange for purposes other than foreign trade transactions is subject to a special reserve requirement; the required reserve amounts to 40 percent of Lebanese pound loans that directly give rise to foreign currency deposits and 15 percent of foreign currency deposits directly arising from Lebanese pound loans to depositors. Banks are authorized to maintain net foreign currency positions up to a half of the amount of their own capital. Under a "free zone" banking facility, the commercial banks are exempt from reserve requirements and fees for deposit insurance in respect of foreign currency deposits. Nonresidents are exempt from the 10 percent tax on interest earnings from foreign currency deposits. Under a National Investment Insurance Scheme, new foreign investments are insured against losses arising from noncivil r isks, inc lud ing war. Compensation is paid on losses exceeding 5 percent of the insured value. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form w i th residents and nonresidents at home or abroad. Imports . r- u • r r i j j and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license but must be officially recorded. The import, export, and domestic sale of foreign gold coin must be covered by a certificate indicating the gold content and we igh t, issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer. _, _ . , _ _. Changes During 1983 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 6 LEBANON 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lesotho is the Loti (plural maloti), which is equal in value to the South African rand. The principal intervention currency is the U .S. dollar. On December 31, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were US$0.8205 and US$0.8213, respec- tively, per M 1. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange operations. The South African Reserve Bank provides forward cover; for private sector transactions such cover is given to authorized dealers based on the middle spot rate adjusted by a percentage factor announced from time to time. The South Afr ican rand is also legal tender in Lesotho. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Exchange Control Territory Lesotho forms part of the Rand Monetary Area, which is an exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, South Afr ica, and Swaziland. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Monetary Area; these are uncontrolled and unrecorded. In relation to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Lesotho applies ex- change controls that are largely similar to those of South Africa and Swaziland. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Lesotho controls external cur- rency transactions. Authority to approve certain types of current payments is delegated to commercial banks up to established limits. Lesotho's trade licensing ar- rangements are designed ma in ly to raise revenue and to prevent tax evasion; permits are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Licenses for f inanc ial ins t i tu- tions and insurance agents are issued by the Central Bank of Lesotho. Imports and Import Payments Lesotho is a member of a customs union with Botswana, South Afr ica, and Swaziland, and there are no restrictions on imports originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from countries outside the customs union are usua l ly licensed in conformity w i th South Afr ica's import regulations; Lesotho reserves the right to restrict certain imports. Import permits are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment upon customs en try. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing for revenue purposes; this requirement, in practice, is restricted to the export of diamonds. Most exports are shipped w i thout license to or through South Afr ica. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, although subject to control, are not normally restricted. Au thor i ty to approve some types of current payments has been delegated to authorized dealers up to established l im i ts, such as the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel (the equivalent of M 6,000 in a calendar year for an adu lt and M 3,000 for a child) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring countries. The allowance for business travel is M 10,000 in a calendar year. Capital Applications for outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. The ru l ings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Certain tax incentives for inward direct investment are provided to manufacturing undertakings approved by a Pioneer Industries Board under the Pioneer Industries Encour- agement Ac t, 1969. The free transfer of income from an em igran t's blocked assets is limited to an annual max- imum of M 100,000 a fam i ly un i t. An emigrant family or an ind iv idual may export one automobile only, with a max imum value of M 20,000, provided the automobile was purchased at least one year prior to emigration. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell any gold coin that is legal tender. Changes During 1983 Payments for Invisibles and Capital February 7. The Lesotho authorities abolished the freely floating f inanc ial rand market and liberalized travel allowances and emigration regulations. Exchange control on nonresidents of the Rand Monetary Area was also abolished. 308 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Liberia is the Liberian Dollar, wh ich is pegged to the U .S. dollar at $1 = US$1. There is no official intervention. U .S. currency is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along w i th Liberian coinage. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Settlements w i th the Central Bank of West African States (for Benin, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Gu inea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control, but the importation of some items is subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Transportation and the National Invest- ment Commission to protect local indus try. These items comprise automobile batteries, biscuits, brooms and brushes, crown corks, exercise books and note pads, insecticides, kitchen towels, roofing nails, paint, paper napkins, sugar, toilet tissues, and wheelbarrows. A few items (e.g., arms and ammunition, explosives, used clothing, and pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses. Imports of rubber footwear, household candles, safety matches, and powdered detergents have been suspended temporarily. In addition, imports of certain goods (e .g ., pornographic literature, narcotics other than for medi- cinal purposes) and all imports from South Africa are prohibited. Petroleum is imported only by the Liberia Petroleum Refining Company, although a private com- pany is the sole distributor of aviation fue l. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of rice have been temporarily suspended. Export licenses are at present required for precious metals, precious stones, elephant tusks and ivory, wild an ima ls, cement, agricul- tural products other than rubber, flour, and sugar, and certain other items, such as arms and ammunition and explosives. Licenses are generally issued freely, and no licenses are required for direct exports by foreign concession holders; licenses serve mainly to enforce taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certifica- tion of qua l i ty and origin and to safeguard the export monopoly of the Liberia Produce Marketing Corpora- tion. The surrender of export proceeds is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. An export tax is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from inv is ib les. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Under an Investment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises undertaking new invest- ment projects may be granted a five-year, 90 percent du ty exemption on imports of raw materials and ma- ch inery, total tax exemption on reinvested profits, a 50 percent exemption on distributable profits, and a protective tariff on competing imported products. The five-year incentive may be renewed for a further two years in certain circumstances. Gold Residents may freely and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Minister of Lands and Mines; import licenses are issued freely but export licenses are granted restrictively. Changes During 1983 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Socialist People's L ibyan Arab Jamahiriya is the Libyan Dinar. The middle rate for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, is LD 0.296053 = US$1. The Central Bank of Libya pub l ishes da i ly buy ing and selling rates for 17 currenc ies .l It deals w i th commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U .S. dol- lars, at rates fixed daily. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U .S. dollars through their foreign correspondents. The banks may not deal among themselves in foreign currencies. Ne i ther authorized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to enter into forward commitments in foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to imports and exports is deter- mined by the Popular Congresses and executed by the General People's Committee for the Economy and Light Industry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other countries are made in convert- ible currencies, usually U .S. dollars or pounds sterling. All settlements w i th Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Central Bank, who is ga in fu l ly employed in the coun try is permitted under the exchange control regulations to open and ma in ta in a nonresident account in Libyan dinars w i th any autho- rized bank. Legitimate earnings of such nonresidents can be credited to their nonresident accounts. S im i la r ly, authorized banks have authority to credit interest earned on savings balances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. (For debits on such accounts see section on Payments for Inv is ib les, be low .) Funds brought in by nonresident contractors undertak- ing contracts in their own names are required to be kept with an authorized bank. Payments received by contrac- tors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank after submission of the prescribed evidence bu t, in general, 'Aus tr ian sch i l l ings, Belgian f rancs, Canad ian do l la r s, Dan i sh kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I t a l i an l i re, Japanese y en, Lebanese pounds, Ne ther lands gu i lders, No rweg ian kroner, pounds sterling, Saudi r iya ls, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, Tun i s ian d in a r s, and U .S. dollars. 310 rem i t tance is permitted up to the net of the tax amount specified in the contract. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accoun ts. W i th the approval of the Central B ank, f u n ds in blocked accounts (w i th certain excep t ions) may be used for expend i tures in the L ibyan Arab J am ah i r iya up to LD 500 a year to cover the cost of v is i ts by the owner of the funds or a close re la t ive; for payment of legal fees, taxes, e tc .; for rem i t tances to the owner of the f u n ds in his coun try of permanent residence (up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year); and for rem i t tances in cases of hardsh ip. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they q u a l i f y, upon payment of due taxes, for rem i t tance in f u ll to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (w i th certain excep t ions) who have le ft the country pe rmanen t ly are being released in ins ta l lmen ts; balances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have been released. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. Imports inc luded in the annual Commod i ty Budget are underta- ken exc lus ive ly by state-owned enterprises w i thout license. Importers are required to deal d irec t ly with producers abroad and not through in termed iar ies. How- ever, imports not included in the Commodity Budget are subject to l icens ing. Resident and nonresident firms unde r tak ing development projects may import needed items wh ich are not inc luded in the annual Commodity Budget and not ava i lab le loca l ly. There is a prohibited import l is t, cons is t ing mainly of consumer and luxu ry goods.2 On ly government agencies may act as commercial agents, inc lud ing import agents, for foreign companies. A state-owned company con- trolled by the Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of gold and precious me ta ls. W i th certain excep t ions, all exchange permits require central bank approva l. Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks fo l low ing central bank approva l, provided that there is a f irm contract and an import license has been obtained from the Secretariat of Economy and, if the import is to be made on a letter of credit bas is, that a marine insurance policy from a local insurance company is subm i t ted before the letter of credit is established. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durab le goods may be opened by an authorized bank w i thout ob ta in ing a required cash margin based on the import price. Importers mu st present to the bank g ran t ing the exchange pe rm i t, w i th in two months of 2These inc lude m in e r al wa te r, f r u it ju ice s, i n s t a nt tea, coffee, green vege tab les, p o u l t r y, preserved mea ts and vege tab le s, alcoholic bever- ages, p e anu t s, fresh f r u i t, o r ien tal rug s, soaps, envelopes, crystal ch and e l i e r s, toy g u n s, and f u r s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOCIALIST PEOPLE'S LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA customs clearance, a customs declaration confirming clearance and stating the valuation. The approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank is required for all payments by residents. Imports are subject to customs duty and to customs surcharges totaling 15 percent of the applicable customs duty. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks are empowered to approve allocations for travel as indicated below. Remittances from nonresident accounts maintained by nonresident workers and technicians may be approved by authorized banks up to limits specified below: (a) nonresidents employed by the state, state-owned enterprises, and foreign companies may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries each month if their contracts do not specify that lodging, boarding, or both will be made available free of charge by the employer, or up to 75 percent of net salary if their contracts specify that both lodging and boarding will be made available free of charge by the employer in accordance with applicable Libyan laws and regulations; and (b) nonresidents employed by the Libyan private sector may remit up to 50 percent of their net salaries, provided that the monthly net remittance does not exceed LD 60 for technicians and LD 40 for nonskilled workers. Banks may issue traveler's checks and foreign currency notes to nonresident workers and technicians within the limits mentioned. All other pay- ments for invisibles, as well as payments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require prior approval from the Central Bank. Applications are con- sidered on their merits. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, inc lud- ing tourist travel, may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, travel- er's checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 (LD 150 for children under 12) in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. Additional amounts may be granted in special circumstances. Pilgrims are entitled to a special quota. Temporary residents may take out any traveler's checks or foreign currency notes which they had prev- iously brought in and declared to the customs. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for f ish, raw wool, hides and skins, and for agricultural products. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Exports of nonmonetary gold (other than for processing abroad), vegetable oils, and scrap metals are prohibited; exports or re-exports of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, tomato paste, and macaroni, which are subsidized commodities, are also prohibited. All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange receipts must be surrendered. Traveler's checks or foreign currency notes may be encashed only at an authorized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Central Bank. Travelers entering the country may bring with them traveler's checks, letters of credit, securities, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in unlimited amounts. Capital Under the provisions of Foreign Capital Investment Law No. 37 of Ju ly 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic devel- opment of the country, as well as profits thereon, may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 percent of the shares are held by foreign nationals. Salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be transferred on the basis described above in the section under Payments for Inv is ib les. Central bank approval is required and customarily granted freely for all such transfers. Foreign participation in industrial ventures set up after March 20, 1970 is permitted on a minority basis, but only if it leads to increased produc- tion in excess of local requirements, introduction of the latest technology, and cooperation with foreign firms in exporting the surplus production. Insurance companies and foreign shareholdings in banks have been nationalized. Commercial f irms have been Libyanized in vary ing degrees, and 51 percent or more of the Libyan interests of the international oil companies have been nationalized. Real estate may be owned in Libya only by Libyans. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Residents require the prior approval of the Central Bank to borrow funds abroad. As a rule, residents must have prior permission from the Secretariat of Economy and Light Indus try to purchase real estate abroad or to invest abroad in securities. The investment of national capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20, 1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars. The Central Bank imports processed and unprocessed gold and precious metals; it also sells gold in bars to domestic goldsmiths for manufacture at prices announced from time to time. The gold is processed before it may be sold to the public. Unworked gold is subject to an import duty of 15 percent. Changes During 1983 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Madagascar is the Malagasy Franc. The Malagasy franc is pegged to a basket of several currencies. The weight assigned to each currency in the basket is based on the distribution of Madagascar's trade during 1973-80. There is no single intervention cur- rency, although the majority of transactions take place in French francs and U .S. dollars. In accordance w i th the movement in the basket, the Central Bank of Madagas- car adjusts the Malagasy franc exchange rates on a daily basis against ten currencies1 which it quotes. The authorized banks are not permitted to maintain an exchange position in any foreign currency although they may hold trade bills as foreign assets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On December 30, 1983 the exchange midpoint rate for the U .S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Madagas- car was FMG 492.16 = US$1. Administration of Control All countries other than Madagascar are considered foreign countries, and financial relations w i th all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Office of the Directorate of the Treasury, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Madagascar, all outward investments, and inward direct investment. Some of the approval authority for exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries, and all exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through such intermediaries. Import licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. Export authorizations are issued either by that Directorate or by other specified public agencies. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized intermediaries which may deal w i th the Central Bank only in French francs or in the other quoted currencies. Nonresident Accounts The principal type of nonresident account is the Foreign Account in Malagasy Francs. Such accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized trans- actions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not eligible for credit to a Foreign Account, they must be 'Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. 312 credited to a Special Blocked Account, balances in which may be used by the holder for personal expenses in Madagascar, subject to a limit of FMG 20,000 a day for the account holder and each accompanying family member. Imports and Import Payments Importers require the approval of the Ministry of Commerce before they are permitted to engage in import activities. All imports are subject to an annual import program the overall value of which is determined by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministries of Commerce and Indus try, and the Central Bank. The Ministry of Commerce allocates quotas to importers w i th in the overall limit of the import program, and licenses are issued freely up to the limits of those quotas. There are two categories of quotas, those open to merchants and those open to industrial enterprises and other importers who are final users of the product. The import of certain items, including alcoholic beverages, rice, wheat flour, vegetable oils, and cement, is reserved for the Regie Malgache des Monopoles Fiscaux and the government-owned trading firm, SINPA. All import transactions valued at FMG 10,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Authoriza- tion for each transaction is represented by a certificate, issued by the commercial bank concerned, which is required to clear the merchandise through customs. The import license entitles importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange (but not earlier than eight days before shipment when a documentary credit is opened). Since about mid-1981, it has not been possible —owing to the severe foreign exchange constraints —to adhere to the system of an annual import program. Instead, an ad hoc committee consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, the Ministries of Commerce and Indus try, the Central Bank, and the commercial banks meets on a weekly basis; its task is to administer the limited available foreign exchange and to ensure that the allocated quotas do not exceed foreign exchange availabilities. There are arrears on payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance which has delegated approval authority to the Directorate of the Treasury and to authorized intermediaries, either up to specified limits or for any amount that is properly documented. Residents may purchase foreign exchange for tourism subject to an annual limit of FMG 100,000 a person a year (FMG 50,000 for children under ten). Any foreign exchange remaining after return to Madagascar must be surrendered. For business travel, foreign exchange may be purchased up to the equivalent of FMG 10,000 a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution person a day, subject to a max imum of FMG 300,000 a year. Authorized banks may not sell foreign bank notes in excess of the equivalent of FMG 20,000 a person a trip for tourist or business travel. Applications for additional amounts, and applications for exchange for any other type of travel, must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Applications for additional foreign exchange for bona fide business trips and for medical treatment abroad are generally ap- proved, but not for tourism. Allocations for d i f fe rent types of travel may not be combined w i thout the prior approval of the Directorate of the Treasury. There are limits for educational expenses and certain other current invisibles. Dividends are transferable in full when distributed by industrial firms and up to 75 per- cent in other cases; they may be transferred only to nonresident physical or jur id ical persons of foreign nationality. The transfer of savings from wages and salaries earned by a foreigner working in Madagascar is permitted, upon presentation of his work contract and employment permit, and provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. The amounts allowed are up to 25 percent of the net salary for bachelors and persons hav ing their fam i ly in Madagas- car, and up to 45 percent for those whose fam i ly lives outside Madagascar (100 percent for both categories during leave spent outside Madagascar); in all cases, the transferable amount may not exceed FMG 330,000 a person a month. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any rema in ing foreign bank notes and coin and other foreign means of payment declared by them on entry. There are arrears on payments for invisibles. Exports and Export Proceeds Enterprises require the prior authorization (carte d' ex- portation) of the Ministry of Commerce to engage in export activity. All exports to all destinations require an export permit (autorisation d' exportation) issued by the Directorate of External Trade or the appropriate com- modity stabilization office. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered; such proceeds normally become due not later than one month after arrival of the goods at their destination un less the Directorate of the Treasury waives this requirement. All commercial export transactions valued at FMG 50,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized inter- mediary, and the exporter must sign a commitment to repatriate the foreign currency proceeds. Subject to prior approval, exporters of manufactured products may retain specified percentages of export proceeds in convertible accounts denominated in Malagasy francs; funds in such accounts may be used freely by such exporters to import spare parts and other essential imports for their own production activity. The government-owned trading firms (CoROi, Roso, SICE, SINPA, and SOMACODIS) have a monopoly over MADAGASCAR exports of certain important commodities such as coffee, cloves, pepper, and butter beans. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds accruing in those countries or from nonresidents, must be repatri- ated w i th in one month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of means of payment denominated in a foreign currency and up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy bank notes. Capital Capital movements between Madagascar and foreign countries and between residents and nonresidents are subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Special controls are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward inves tmen t, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar. Foreign direct investments in Madagascar,2 require prior approval of the Minister of Finance and Economy (the Directorate of the Treasury). Malagasy direct investments abroad3 are prohibited without special authorization from the Ministry of Finance and Econ- omy. The total or partial liquidation of such investments must be declared to the Ministry of Finance and Economy. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Malagasy investments abroad or foreign investments in Madagascar, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each transaction. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company, but such participation is subject to prior declaration to the Minis- try of Finance and Economy. The issu ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Madagascar requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Exempt from authorization are operations in connection with shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Madagascar has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy, although loans contracted by authorized banks or credit institutions with special legal status are exempt. Lending abroad is subject to authori- zation by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. In accordance with the Investment Code of Septem- ber 19, 1973, foreign or domestic enterprises of special importance to the economy may be granted preferential treatment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agrement). Such enterprises may benefit from 2 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Madagascar that are directly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Madagascar of foreign companies. 3I n c l u d i ng those made through foreign companies that are directly or ind irec t ly controlled by persons in Madagascar and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Madagascar. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MADAGASCAR specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, import licenses, the introduction of quotas for competing imports, etc. The same benefits may be granted temporarily to investments not qu a l i fy- ing for an "order of approval." Exceptional treatment beyond the benefits provided for by the Investment Code and other existing legislation may be granted in a participation contract (contrat de participation). Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Madagascar. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the M in is try of Commerce. Exempt from this requirement are (1) im- ports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles contain- ing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and (3) imports by travelers of gold jewelry and other articles of gold up to 500 grams a family and numismatic items up to 200 grams a f am i ly. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. Newly mined gold must be surrendered to the Directorate of Indus try and Mines, wh ich, in principle, must deliver it to the Central Bank after processing. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangements January 31. The Malagasy franc was devalued by 5.7 percent (6.0 percent in local currency terms) against the existing level on its composite currency peg. July 8. The Malagasy franc was devalued by 2 per- cent aga inst the ex is t ing level on its composite currency peg. October /. The Malagasy franc was devalued by 9.5 percent against the ex is t ing level on its composite currency peg. Administration of Control June 1. The designation of specified ministries was changed as fo l lows: M in is ter at the Presidency in Charge of Finance became M in is ter at the Presidency in Charge of Finance and Economy, and M in is ter of Industry and Commerce became M in is ter of Commerce. Exports and Export Proceeds March 23. A fac i l i ty (compte EPI, i . e ., Exportation/ Pieces detachees-Intrants) was established, under which exporters of manufac tured products in approved cases could retain specified percentages of export proceeds in convertible accounts denominated in Malagasy francs; funds in such accounts could be used freely by such exporters to import spare parts and other essential inputs for their own production ac t iv i ty. 314 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malawi is the Ma lawi Kwacha, which is pegged to the SDR at MK 1.3577 = SDR 1. The middle rate of the Malawi kwacha for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, quoted by the Reserve Bank of Malawi is determined on the basis of the daily calcula- tions of the U.S. dollar-SDR rate. On December 31, 1983 the Reserve Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 1.2960 and MK 1.3057, respec- tively, per US$1. The Reserve Bank also quotes buy ing and selling rates for the Canadian dollar, the deutsche mark, the South African rand, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, the Zambian kwacha, and the Zimbabwe dollar, which are determined on the basis of the appropriate daily cross rates in the London market. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank under authority delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Import policy is formulated by the Minister of Trade and Industry, who also is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents may be made in Malawi kwacha to the credit of a nonresident account maintained by the recipient or in any convertible foreign cu r rency' traded in Malawi. Payments from residents of other countries may be received in Malawi kwacha from a nonresident account or in any convertible foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other countries are designated nonresident accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th the proceeds from sales of any convertible foreign currency, with authorized pay- ments in Malawi kwacha by residents to foreign coun- tries, and with transfers from other nonresident accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make pay- ments to residents of Malawi for any purpose and may be transferred freely to other nonresident accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Malawi. Blocked Accounts in Malawi kwacha are held w i th authorized banks by residents of any country other than Malawi. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of 'Under Ma law i 's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi kwacha are considered foreign currencies. balances of Blocked Accounts in an approved manner. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments For a number of items2 import licenses are required regardless of the country of origin. All other goods3 may be imported under an open general license when origina- ting in Commonwealth countries or in non-Common- wealth countries that are members of the GATT (except Poland). For other countries (including Poland) an import license is required for all commodities except certain items that are free from licensing irrespective of origin, such as petroleum products, exposed cinemato- graphic f i lms, samples, and advertising materials. Except with the permission of the exchange control authorities, payments for imports from all countries must be made after the arrival of the goods in Malawi. Applications for foreign exchange for these payments are referred to the exchange control authorities for formal approval subject only to the presentation of relevant import documents. Any transfer of funds in anticipation of imports is prohibited, except w i th the permission of the exchange control authorities. Payments against sight letters of credit and sight bills of exchange are not permitted. Imports may be paid for in Malawi currency to an appropriate local nonresident account or in any convertible currency. In addition to a 3 percent levy, a surcharge of 20 percent is levied on most goods imported into Malawi, irrespective of origin; the surcharge is calculated on 120 percent of the sum of the value for customs duty purposes and any customs du ty payable. For certain imports that are channeled through clearing and forwarding agents, a prepayment of 50 percent of the applicable port duties and clearing charges is required. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports requires prior approval of the exchange control authori- ties. For other purposes such as foreign travel, foreign exchange is provided up to certain limits by authorized dealers without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic exchange allowance for private travel is MK 20 a day for an adult, with a max imum of MK 600 a calendar year, and MK 10 a day for each child under 18 years of age, with a max imum of MK 300 a calendar year for children between 10 and 18, and of 2Certain agr icu l tural and food products, new (m i l i t a ry type) and used c lo th ing, gold, sugar, wheat f lou r, cemen t, fer t i l izers, newspr int and certain paper products, pencils, ball-point pens, office stapling machines and staples, p r in t ing inks, erasers, hand-operated numbe r ing stamps, f l ick kn ive s, explosives, arms and amm u n i t i o n, game traps, mist nets, w i ld animals, live f ish, cassava, and copyright articles. 3 A licensing system based on tariff quotas and l inked to purchases of domestic substitutes is applied to imports of c lo th ing items under two tariff headings. 3 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI MK 200 a year for ch i ldren under 10. A n n u al a l lowances are not cumulative but may be increased by up to 50 per- cent if the traveler has not applied for a travel a l lowance dur ing the preceding three years. A l loca t ions are subject to a combined m ax imum of MK 2,000 a year for a fam i ly traveling together. The basic exchange a l lowance for business travel is MK 40 a day, up to MK 400 a tr ip for any number of trips a year. Exchange is p rov ided, subject to certain l im i t s, for other purposes such as education, medical trea tmen t, and f am i ly rem i t tances. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard alloca- tions may be submitted to the exchange control au tho r i- ties. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts and holding a temporary employment permit are a l lowed to remit up to two th irds of the ir current net earnings to their country of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to MK 20 in Ma lawi currency and the equ iva lent of MK 20 in foreign currency in add i t ion to the ir basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed MK 100 in value are not allowed, un less the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that payment has been made or w i ll be made in an appropriate manner to a resident of Malawi not later than six mon ths af ter the date of exportation. Certain commodities4 are sub ject to export l icens ing, m a in ly to ensure the adequacy of domestic supplies. Export proceeds in fore ign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from inv is ib les in any foreign currency mu st be sold to an authorized dealer. There is no l im i ta t ion on the amount of foreign currency notes and coin that may be imported by travelers, but not more than MK 20 in Malawi currency notes and coin may be imported. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, w i th the exception that the tak ing up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approva l, wh ich is normally granted, provided that the terms of repayment, inc lud ing the servicing costs, are acceptable. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresi- dents are permitted to repatriate the ir inves tmen ts when they have satisfied the au thor i t ies that the or ig inal Imp lemen ts of wa r, petroleum p roduc ts, n i c k e l, a tom ic ene rgy ma ter ia ls, and certain ag r i cu l tu r al and a n im al p roduc t s. inve s tment was made w i th funds brought into the coun try; there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of d iv idends and p ro f i ts of foreign-owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrow ing. Res iden ts may not purchase any foreign securities w i thout specific exchange control approval. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, w i th certain excep t ions, they are required to offer for sale to an au thor ized dealer any foreign exchange that accrues to th em. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonres iden ts or to resident f irms controlled directly or indirectly from outside Ma law i. Approval to lend to nonresident-controlled f i rms may be w i thhe ld if it is felt there is excessive recourse to local borrowing and that a f i rm has brought in in su f f i c i ent work ing capital from abroad. All applications for em ig ran ts' allowances must be subm i t ted to the exchange control authorities for ap- proval: ( 1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed exchange up to MK 15,000 whe ther single or married. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on depar ture, together w i th MK 500 for each ch i ld, up to a m a x im um of MK 8,000 for a f am i ly. (3) Unmarried persons under 50 years of age are allowed MK 3,000 on depar ture. (4) The balance of the em igran t's funds is b locked, but on the ann iversary of the departure date from M a l awi a sum equal to the original emigration a l lowance is permitted to be transferred to the new coun t ry of res idence, up to a m a x im um of MK 8,000. Gold Res iden ts may purchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins in M a l awi for num i sm a t ic purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and autho- rized indu s t r i al users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold at home or abroad in any form other than jewelry. Imports of gold in any form other than jewe lry require licenses issued by the M in is ter of Trade and Indus try in consultation w i th the M in is try of Finance; such licenses are not norma l ly granted except for imports by or on beha lf of the monetary au thor i t ies and indus tr ial users. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement September 18. The exchange rate of the kwacha was changed from MK 1 = SDR 0.8250 to MK 1 = SDR 0.7365, representing a deva lua t ion of 10.73 percen t. 316 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ma lay s ia is the R i n g g i t. The ex ternal value of the r ingg it is de te rm ined on the bas is of its relationship to a basket of currencies weighted in terms of Ma lays ia 's major t rad ing partners and the currencies of settlement. The exchange rate of the r ingg it in terms of the U .S. do l lar, the in t e rv en t ion cu r rency, is deter- mined in the foreign exchange ma rke t, and the Cen tral Bank of Malaysia intervenes in order to promote re la t ive stability in the va lue of the r ingg it in relation to the basket of currencies. Rates for all other currencies are determined on the bas is of the r i n g g i t — U . S. do l lar rate and the U .S. dollar rates for those currenc ies in ma rke ts abroad. The buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U . S. dollar on December 31, 1983 were M$2 .3383 and M$2.3390, respectively, per US$1. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates for all cu r renc ies to customers and are perm i t ted to deal forward in all currencies. There are no taxes or subs id ies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Malaysia fo rma l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Ar t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t, as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank adm in i s te rs exchange control throughout Ma lays ia on beha lf of the M a l ay s i an Govern- men t, the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Most of the au tho r i ty for app rov ing payments abroad is delegated to authorized banks. The authority for import control rests w i th the Central Government. The day-to-day adm in i s t r a t ion of import control throughout Ma lay s ia is carried out j o i n t ly by the M in is try of Trade and Indu s t ry and the Royal Cus toms and Excise. Prescription of Currency All paymen ts to coun tr ies other th an Israel and South Africa may be made e i ther in r i n g g it th rough an Ex te rnal Account or in any currency o ther than I s rae li and Sou th Afr ican currencies. Rece ip ts from exports to coun tr ies other than Israel and South Afr ica must be obtained according to the t im i ng of p aym ent spec if ied in the commercial contract but subject to a m a x im um period of six months from the date of expo r ta t ion, e i ther in r ingg it obtained from the sale of a spec if ied currency to a bank in Malaysia or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to se t t lemen ts w i th Israel and Sou th A f r ica. Nonresident Accounts The accounts in r ingg it of res iden ts of coun tr ies other than Ma lays ia are des igna ted as Ex te rnal Accoun ts. There are no restrictions on debits to External Accounts. Credits to these accounts for whatever purpose are freely pe rm i t ted, subject on ly to the completion of exchange control forms for amoun ts above M$10,000; the pro- ceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to Ex te rnal Accoun ts. For amoun ts exceeding M$ l0 ,000, perm iss ion may be g iven by authorized commercial bank s. Ba lances in Ex ternal Accounts may be transferred to any other accoun t, whe ther resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any currency except Israe li and South A f r ican currenc ies. Accounts of residents of Israel and South A f r ica are designated as Israeli Accoun ts and South A f r ican Accounts respec- t i v e l y. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tar iffs and import controls of the var ious parts of Malaysia have been fu l ly un i f ied. Depending on the na ture and origin of the goods, specific licenses are required for cer ta in imports for reasons of hea l th, secu r i ty, or pub l ic po l icy; var ious cond i t ions must be satisfied before licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quantitative restric- t ions as a temporary measure to protect local industries; these res tr ic t ions are reviewed from t ime to t ime. Imports from Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports from the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina are subject to specific l icense, and app l ica t ions to import must be subm i t ted through PERN AS, except for items that are perishable or subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. Imports of motor veh ic les are subject to specific licensing w i th quan t i ta t ive restriction. Movements of l ive an ima ls between Pen in su lar Ma lays ia, Sabah, and Sarawak are subject to movement permits issued by the Ve ter inary Depar tmen t. Imports of live an ima ls (except sheep and goats), bones, and bone meal from India require a specific license. Imports of primates are under specific license subject to approval from the Department of W i l d l i fe and Na t ional Parks. Payment for permitted imports is allowed after exchange control forma l i t ies have been me t. Raw ma te r ia ls and mach inery for the manu fac tu r ing sector are eligible for preferential treat- ment du ty as fo l lows: (a) raw materials are subject to a reduced rate of import du ty of 2 to 3 percent; (b) indus tr ies can be fu r ther exempted from th is 2 to 3 percent import d u ty if they comp ly w i th the New Economic Policy in terms of equ i ty participation, man- agement, and emp loyment s truc ture; (c) all duties on imported machinery and equipment wh ich is unavailable loca l ly and used d irec t ly in the m anu f a c tu r ing process can be considered for exemp t ion; and (d) import du ty drawback can be c la imed by any manu fac tu re r, provided that evidence of export performance and importation of raw materials is submitted. 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel and South Africa may be made w i thout restriction after exchange control requirements have been met. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and profits on all bona fide investments are permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts in excess of M$l0,000. There are no restrictions on the export of currency notes by travelers. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are totally pro- hibited. The customs areas and export control systems between the three territories of Malaysia have been harmonized. Exchange control forms have to be com- pleted and authorized by banks in Malaysia for exports valued at M$5,000 f .o .b. or more (for exports to Indonesia, forms are not required except where exports are valued at more than M$100,000). Proceeds from exports must be received according to the timing of payment specified in the commercial contract, but subject to a maximum period of six months from the date of export, either in a specified currency or in ringgit obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia. Exports of rubber from Peninsular Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports of cement, scrap iron, formic acid, wheat f lour, rice bran, and sugar are subject to licensing. Also subject to licensing are exports of all textiles, tiles, bricks, "dollar area goods," and other goods as specified in the second schedule of the Customs (Prohibition of Exports) Order, 1978, of the 1967 Customs Act. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control authorities do not regulate exchange receipts from invisibles, but receipts from exports are subject to exchange control. No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes by travelers. Capital Inward investment covered by the guidelines issued on February 20, 1974 (regarding the acquisition of assets, mergers, and takeovers) requires prior approval by the Foreign Investment Committee. The proceeds of invest- ments may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the completion of exchange control formalities for amounts above M$l0,000. Companies in Malaysia controlled by nonresidents are permitted to borrow in Malaysia up to M$500,000 without exchange control approval. The permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is freely given for direct and portfolio investment by Malaysian residents in countries other than Israel and South Africa. Commercial banks are discouraged from giving loans to finance investments abroad; such funds should be used to finance the expansion of productive capacity in Malaysia. 318 Residents may borrow freely from abroad sums which are individually less than M$ 100,000; beyond that amoun t, permission must be obtained from the Control- ler, stating the main terms and conditions of the loan and the purpose for which the loan proceeds would be used. Service payments on approved foreign loans may be permitted by the commercial banks on behalf of the Controller, provided these payments are in accordance w i th the approved terms and conditions. Commercial banks and merchant banks in Malaysia can lend in foreign currency to residents and accept deposits in foreign currency from nonresidents. Loans in foreign currency by banks in Malaysia must be for business and productive purposes in Malaysia, including (but not exc lus ive ly) payment for the import of goods and services, payment of interest or repayment of principal on loans from nonresidents, or payment for the purchase from nonresidents of immovable properties in Malaysia or stocks and shares, provided that, for the purchase of property or shares (a) the Foreign Investment Committee has given its approval, (b) the amount borrowed does not exceed the equivalent of M$25 million, and (c) repay- ment of principal will not be made with funds borrowed in ringgit from residents. The approval of the Controller is required for all other foreign currency loans. As an incentive, interest paid to nonresidents by the commer- cial banks is exempted from payment of the 15 percent withholding tax. Gold Residents of Malaysia are permitted to purchase, sell, borrow, lend, hold, or export gold, provided that the weight of ind iv idual bars and wafers does not exceed 100 grams in each case. A traveler may import, on one's own person or in personal luggage, any number of gold coins issued by the Central Bank of Malaysia but only one piece of any other type of gold coin, medallion, bar, or wafer not exceeding 100 grams in weight. The importation of gold is otherwise regulated by specific license issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry, the policy being to limit such importation to authorized dealers who are required to quote daily buy ing and selling prices for the wafers that they retail to the public. Changes During 1983 Nonresident Accounts April 14. Authorization was granted for commercial banks to approve payments to nonresidents in foreign currency or in ringgit through external accounts without limits. Previously, such payments without prior approval by the Controller of Foreign Exchange were limited to M$2 million. Capital April 14. Limitation on access to domestic credit by companies in Malaysia controlled by nonresidents was relaxed for cases in which such credit was to finance the expansion of production capacity for existing products or the installation of production capacity for new products in Malaysia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALDIVES (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Maldives is the Maldivian Ru f iyaa, which replaced the Maldivian rupee on Ju ly 1, 1981. The official exchange rate of the rufiyaa is set by the Maldives Monetary Authority (MMA). Standing instruc- tions by the MMA to the commercial banks require them to buy foreign exchange at Rf 7.00 = US$1 and to sell at a small margin. Since March 31, 1982 the selling rate quoted by the banks has been Rf 7.10 = US$1. No margins in respect of exchange transactions are officially maintained. However, in addition to direct inflows of foreign exchange into commercial banks in Maldives, a quarterly fixed quota is provided by the MMA to each on a temporary basis, beginning from September 1983. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation. Trade con- trols are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industries, which also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Since January 25, 1982 all local transactions between residents and nonresidents, such as the settlement of tourism bills, must be made in local currency. There are no restrictions on maintaining balances in foreign cur- rency. No bilateral payments agreements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents; and there are no restrictions on keeping foreign currency balances. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. There are, in general, no restrictions on imports. However, import operations may be conducted only after being registered and licensed at the Ministry of Trade and Industries. All imports of trading goods by the private sector are required to be made on a letter of credit basis. Most staple commodities (including rice, sugar, wheat flour, medicines, and petroleum products) are imported by the State Trading Organization. Payments for Invisibles Travelers may freely take out any amount in domestic or foreign currency, without any restriction. Exports and Export Proceeds Export operations are conducted only after being registered and licensed at the Ministry of Trade and Industries. Export of black coral and tortoise shells is prohibited, except in the form of a product. Export duties are levied on ambergris exported by a Maldivian, goods exported by a Maldivian jointly with a foreigner, and goods exported by a foreigner; re-exports are exempt. Exporters of dutiable goods are required to import goods or foreign exchange equal to the value of the goods exported, w i th in the period of time specified in the license. In the case of duty-free exports, exporters may, upon request by the Government, be required to import specified goods in an amount not exceeding 33 percent of the value of the goods exported. Proceeds from Invisibles Private sector receipts from current invisibles need not be surrendered and may be disposed of freely through the foreign exchange market. Travelers may bring in any amount in domestic or foreign currency without any restriction, but must settle accounts in local currency, which must be purchased from official money-changing institutions. Capital Residents and nonresidents may freely import and export capital through the foreign exchange market, and residents do not require permission to maintain foreign currency accounts at home or abroad. Inward direct investment requires approval. All foreign investors are required to provide at least 75 percent of their capital investment either in the form of cash or in capital goods financed from outside Maldives. Transfers of profits are permitted, and exemptions from taxes other than tourism taxes may be granted for a period of up to ten years. Gold Transactions in gold are not subject to regulation. Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form, at home or abroad, and the import and export of gold is not restricted. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement September 6. In addition to direct inflows of foreign exchange into commercial banks in Maldives, the Mone- tary Authority established a foreign exchange budget for each commercial bank with effect from September 1983, on a temporary basis. Imports and Import Payments October 1. All imports by the private sector were required to be made on a letter of credit basis, for the period through April 30, 1984. Capital May 9. A regulation was introduced requiring all foreign investors to provide at least 75 percent of their capital investment either in the form of cash or in capital goods financed from outside Maldives. 3 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position on December 31, 1983} Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mali is the Mali Franc, wh ich is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the rate of MF 1 = F 0.01. There is also a fixed rate for CFA francs of MF 2 = CFAF 1. The official buying and selling rates for the French franc are MF 100 per F 1. All exchange transactions in French francs take place at that official rate. Exchange rates for all other currencies that are officially quoted on the Paris exchange market are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold, Mali's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Repub l ic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made free ly. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Commerce has sole authority in exchange control matters; certain exchange control powers have been delegated to authorized banks. The Central Bank of Mali is responsible for the control over repatriation of export proceeds. The bilateral payments agreement accounts1 are operated by the Development Bank of Mali. Licenses for imports and exports are issued by the Directorate-General of Eco- nomic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bi- lateral payments agreements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agreements. Since Mali is an Operations Account coun try, set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in Mali francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Settlements with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Gu inea -B issau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are 'Ma li maintains bilateral payments agreements w i th the People's Republic of Ch ina, Hungary, Morocco, Roman ia, U . S . S .R ., and Viet Nam. With the exception of those w i th the People's Republic of China and the U .S .S .R ., these agreements are inoperative. 320 normally made through the West African Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are, in pr inc ip le, based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments The import licensing system introduced in 1977 d is t ingu ishes f ive categories of imports: (1) imports subject to quotas and requiring an import license (Re- gime A); (2) imports admitted freely and requiring only an import certificate (Regime B); (3) imports without settlement in foreign exchange (Regime C); (4) imports by government monopolies (Regime D); and (5) imports subject to special prohibitions for reasons of security, pub l ic hea l th, etc. (Regime E). Imports originating in a member country of the West African Economic Commu- n i ty are subject to Regime B; some products from EC coun tr ies, such as foods tuffs and other basic necessities not reserved for state monopolies, are also included in Regime B. Other products from the EC countries, such as luxu ry consumer goods and products that compete w i th local produc t ion, are subject to quota under Re- gime A, as are all commodities from all other countries. Imports financed directly from foreign resources, for example, from grants, foreign investment, or devel- opment loans, are admitted v i r tua l ly freely under Re- gime C. Specified foods tu f fs ( inc lud ing sugar, tea, salt, m i lk, and canned tomatoes), tobacco products, and fertilizers can only be imported by state agencies designated as monopolies under Regime D. Imports from Israel, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports are licensed in accordance w i th an annual import program. A license is valid for six months bu t, if necessary, may be extended for a further three months. However, the system is implemented flexibly, and licenses in excess of the program are issued for justified need or unforeseen c ircums tances; thus in both 1978 and 1979 licenses issued exceeded the amount originally programmed. Imports may be made by either private importers or state enterprises, among the most important of wh ich is the Societe Ma l ienne d'Import-Export (SOM IEX ), w i th its monopoly over basic commodities. An allocation commission establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his turnover. Payments for Invisibles Payments for inv is ib les to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to ap- proval. Payments for inv is ib les related to trade are per- mitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au thor iza t ion. Transfers of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution income accruing to nonresidents in the form of prof i ts, dividends, and royalties are subject to approval. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to MF 500,000 a person (MF 250,000 for children under 10), wh ich may be allotted on several occasions dur ing the year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Mali must be surren- dered. For business travel, the allocation is the equ iva- lent of MF 50,000 a day, subject to a m a x im um of MF 500,000 a trip .2 Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of MF 50,000 in Mali bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by other Operations Account countries (MF 5,000 for trips of less than 24 hours). Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign bank notes up to the equ iva lent of MF 200,000; h igher amounts may be taken out only if declared upon entry. They may also take out MF 50,000 in Ma li bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by other Operations Account countries, and any payments ins t ru- ments drawn up abroad in their name. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner wo rk ing in Mali is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period or where there is a reciprocity agreement w i th the fore igner's coun try of nationality. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be recorded w i th an authorized bank, and all export proceeds, inc lud ing those originating in France and other Operations Ac- count countries, must be repatriated and surrendered w i th in 90 days of the arrival of the goods at the ir destination. Exports to countries outside the West A f r i- can Economic Commun i ty require ind iv idual licenses; those to countries of the West A f r ican Economic Community require only a certificate. The export of cotton and groundnuts is reserved, in pr inc ip le, for SOMIEX. Exchange for tourist t ravel purposes is made av a i l ab le o n ly to persons subm i t t ing an ex it permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Security Services. MALI Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in inv is ib les w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries for services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the Central Bank of Ma l i, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Ma l i, France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but cap i tal receipts from such countries are permitted f ree ly. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, a l though the Development Bank of Ma li is exempt from these controls. The special control measures also do not apply to relations w i th France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries. Under an Inves tment Code of March 30, 1976, the Government may grant special privileged status, pro- v id ing for t rans fe r, tax, and other preferential treatment to foreign inve s tmen ts that would be of special interest to the Ma l ian economy and that are compatible w i th the goals of the Economic Plan. Gold Travelers may export gold jewe lry and personal be long ings, other than gold coin and ingots, up to a max- im um we ight of 500 grams. Commercial imports and ex- ports of gold do not require au thor iza t ion by the M in is try of Finance and Commerce but are subject to customs declaration as prescribed by the customs regulations. Changes During 1983 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malta is the Maltese Lira. The value of the Maltese lira is determined on the basis of the fixed relationship between the Maltese lira and a trade- weighted basket of currencies1 representing Ma l ta's important trading partners. The daily exchange rate between the Maltese lira and the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, is derived by adding up the latest dollar values of the currency components of the Maltese lira basket; the midday quotations in Hong Kong are used in the computations. In dealings with the commer- cial banks, a spread of 0.25 percent is applied between the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar. On December 30, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates for the Maltese lira in terms of the U .S. dollar in such dealings were US$2.2475 and US$2.2419, respectively, per Lm 1. The Central Bank also quotes daily rates for various other currencies, inc lud ing the deutsche ma rk, the Italian lira, and the pound sterling, on the basis of the rate for the U .S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the principal exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank's basic rate (middle rate) for the pound sterling on December 30, 1983 was £ stg. 1.5491 per Lm 1. The commercial banks' rates for currencies not quoted by the Central Bank are based on market rates in London and New York. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank, as agent for the M in is ter of Finance; trade controls are administered by the Director of Trade in the M in is t ry of Trade. The approval authority for the allocation of foreign exchange for certain purposes has been delegated to the authorized banks, wh ich also may give or renew guarantees for any purpose provided they hold f u ll cash cover in Maltese lira or foreign currency for the period of the guarantee. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Maltese lira to an External Account or in any foreign currency ;2 the proceeds of exports to all coun- tries may be received in Maltese lira from an External Account or in any foreign currency. Under a policy of "trade reciprocity," Malta ma in ta ins bilateral trade agreements w i th a number of other countries, inc lud ing the Libyan Arab Jamah i r iya and Turkey, to promote exports of Maltese goods in return for the importation of specified goods from the respec- tive partner countries. Outstanding balances under these agreements can be settled in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Malta may maintain with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Maltese lira, designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely w i th authorized payments to nonresi- dents, w i th transfers from other External Accounts, and w i th the proceeds from sales of gold or any foreign currency ( inc lud ing bank notes). External Accounts may be debited freely for paymen ts to residents, for transfers to other External Accoun ts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any foreign currency ( inc lud ing bank notes). Authorized dealers may freely open and maintain Foreign Currency Accounts for nonresidents. These accounts may be credited w i th payments in foreign currency to the account holder, w i th transfers from another foreign currency account belonging to a nonresi- den t, and w i th interest payable on foreign currency accounts. They may be debited for payments by the account holder to residents, for transfers to other Foreign Currency Accoun ts, and for transfers abroad. Subject to exchange control permission, companies controlled by nonresidents or residents may ma in ta in foreign currency accounts in Malta or abroad. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all commodities are, in principle, subject to either state-trading or licensing requirements. All im- ports from Japan are banned w i th the exception of spare parts for products already in Malta. The importation, in finished form, of certain goods wh ich can be produced domestically is restricted; this restriction covers more than 60 d ifferent products, most of which are leather goods, tex t i le goods, and meat products. Certain imports are subject to state trad ing. These include commodities regarded as essential, such as tinned m i lk, butter, meat, livestock for slaughter, wheat, barley, corn, potatoes, soybean o i l, rice, sugar, t inned meat and f ish, cheese, coffee, tea, f r u i t, cement, steel, and timber. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that the prescription of currency regula- tions are complied w i th and that supporting documents, inc lud ing the customs entry form and the related import license, are submitted to the intermediary bank. As a form of exchange cover, and subject to exchange control approval, residents may keep foreign currency accounts to settle import paymen ts; on the same basis, import paymen ts may also be offset against export proceeds. 1 Deutsche ma rk, French f ranc s, Japanese y en, Ne the r lands gu i ld e r s, pounds s te r l ing, Swiss francs, and U .S. do l lars. 2Foreign currencies are def ined as all currencies other than the Maltese lira. Payments for Invisibles Payments for inv is ib les require the approval of the exchange control authorities but approval authority for 322 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution most types of payment has been delegated to au thor ized banks. For res iden ts, there is a m a x im um exchange allocation for tour ist travel of the equ iv a l ent of Lm 250 a person for a tr ip of not less th an six n ig h ts (prorated for trips of different du r a t ion ), subject to a m a x im um of one such trip in 60 days, and a bu s ine ss travel a l lowance of Lm 70 a day a person up to a l im it of Lm 1,500 a t r ip, subject to a l im it of one such t r ip in 30 days; reques ts beyond the specified l im i ts requ i re the excep t ional consideration of the Central B a n k. Expenses (o ther than air or sea fares) defrayed in advance in Ma l ta in connection w i th such trips are counted w i th in the fore ign exchange a l lowance. There is also an a l lowance for educational expenses abroad of Lm 3,000 a person for an academic yea r .3 App l ica t ions for a l lowances in excess of these amoun ts are approved by the Cen tral Bank if it is satisfied that no i l l i c it cap i tal ou t f low is invo lv ed. Nonresident travelers may import any am o u nt of fore ign currency and may export fo re ign cu r rency up to the amount brought in by them and declared to the cus toms on entry. The transfer of p ro f i ts, d iv id end s, and in terest from approved foreign inves tmen ts requ ires cen tral bank permission, wh ich is no rm a l ly g i v e n, a f ter comp l iance w i th certain fo rma l i t ie s. L i fe in su rance expressed in Malta currency may be contracted on ly w i th in su rance companies that are d u ly licensed as requ i red und er the Insurance Bus iness A c t, 1981. Rem i t tances for the maintenance of dependen ts abroad are a l lowed on application show ing evidence of h a r d s h i p. Up to Lm 25 in Ma l tese notes and co ins may be exported by a t rave le r. Exports and Export Proceeds W i th the exception of works of art and ce r ta in essential goods, all commod i t ies may be exported f ree ly. However, certain tex t i le produc ts for export to EC countries are subject to l i c e n s i n g. The proceeds of exports mu st be surrendered w i t h in six mon ths of sh ipmen t. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from inv i s ib l es mu st be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may b r i ng in any amount in foreign currency notes, but w i t h o ut an a u t h o r i z a t i on by the M in is ter of F inance, impor ta t ion of any notes and coin wh ich are or have been legal tender in Ma l ta is permitted only up to Lm 50. Capital No control is exercised over cap i tal rece ip ts, a l though receipts in foreign currencies mu st be offered for sale to an authorized b ank. Paymen ts abroad of a cap i tal n a t u re require prior approval. App l ica t ions for ou twa rd d irect inves tment by residents and for direct i n v e s tm e nt in 3For purposes of exchange a l l o c a t i o ns for t r a v el and s t u d y, r e s i d e n ts a re def ined as phy s ical persons who a re at the t ime l i v i ng in M a l ta and either have l ived there for at least th ree years or i n t e nd to c o n t i n ue l iv ing there for at least three yea rs. MALTA Ma l ta by nonres iden ts are considered on their merits. The Immovab le Property (Acqu i s i t ion by Nonresidents) A c t, 1974, adm in is te red by the M in i s t ry of Finance, p roh ib i ts the acqu is i t ion of immovab le property in Malta by non res iden ts ,4 w i th the exception of certain special cases m a i n ly related to economic deve lopmen t. Applica- t ions for the acqu is i t ion of property for use as a residence by i n d i v i d u a ls who do not already hold property in Malta are g iven favorab le cons idera t ion. Purchases of personal real estate s i tua ted ou ts ide Ma l ta require prior exchange control app rova l. Foreign na t iona ls who take up residence outside Malta n o rm a l ly are a l lowed to transfer all their assets to the ir new coun t ry of res idence. Maltese na t iona ls who emi- grate may t ran s fer abroad up to Lm 7,500 for each f am i l y; any excess amount is no rma l ly released three years af ter the date of departure on application to the Cen tral B a n k. B ank s, o ther than those licensed to borrow and lend on ly ou ts ide Ma l ta, are restricted in the a cqu i s i t ion of net fore ign assets. Gold Ma l ta has issued 22 denom ina t ions of gold coin wh ich are legal tende r. Res iden ts are allowed to hold coin and to acqu i re j ew e l r y, but they requ ire exchange control pe rm iss ion to purchase and sell any gold coin that is not legal tende r. The import of gold coin is controlled to en su re th at such coins are genu ine ly for num i sma t ic purposes. A spec if ic import license is required for impor ts of gold co in, gold b u l l i o n, and manu fac tu red or s em im anu f a c tu r ed articles of gold; imports of filigree wo rk of gold or s i lv er are p roh ib i ted. Subject to exchange con trol pe rm i s s ion, au thor ized importers may import gold b u l l i on on ly to supp ly jewelers and other i n d u s t r i al use rs. The export of gold by residents other than the mone tary au tho r i t ies also requ ires exchange control pe rm i s s ion. Gold bu l l ion and gold coin are free of import d u t y. Changes During 1983 Prescription of Currency June 1 and June 6. Under a new policy of "trade r e c ip ro c i ty /' Ma l ta conc luded b i la te ral trade agreements w i th Tu rkey ( J u ne 1) and the L ibyan A rab Jamah i r iya ( J u ne 6). The agreemen ts a l lowed for ou ts tand ing bal- ances to be settled in conve r t ib le currency. Proceeds from Invisibles July 28. A new r egu l a t ion was introduced under w h i ch the fore ign exchange allowance for tourist travel e q u i v a l e nt to Lm 250 a person a t r ip of not less than six 4For the purpose of t h is A c t, the te rm non re s iden ts means ( 1) i n d i v i d u a ls who a re not re s iden ts of M a l t a; (2) any association of pe rsons, or any e n t i t y, w h e t h er corporate or no t, if (a) it is registered o u t s i de M a l t a, or (b) it has i ts p r i n c i p al p lace of residence or of b u s i n e ss o u t s i de M a l t a, or ( c) 20 percent or more of its share or other c a p i t al is owned by a n o n r e s i d e nt pe r son, or (d) it is in any m ann e r, w h e t h er d i r e c t ly or i n d i r e c t l y, con t ro l led by one or more non res ident persons. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA nights was made to inc lude expenses (other than air or sea fares) defrayed in advance in Malta in connection with a trip; in add i t ion, such trips were l im i ted to one every 60 days. The allowance for bus iness travel was increased from Lm 50 to Lm 70 a person a day, up to a max imum of Lm 1,500 a tr ip; requests for more than one bus iness t r ip in 30 days were requ ired to be referred to the Central Bank for excep t ional cons idera t ion. 324 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position on December 31, 1983} Exchange Arrangement The currency of Maur i tan ia is the Mau r i tan ian Ouguiya. The exchange rate for the ougu iya is deter- mined on the basis of a basket of currencies comprising the Belgian f ranc, the deutsche ma rk, the French f ranc, the Italian lira, the pound sterling, the Spanish peseta, and the U .S. dollar. The relative weights assigned to each currency are based on that currency's relative importance in Mauritania's total exchange transactions and are revised every three months. The opening spot rates of the currencies in the basket against the U .S. dollar on the Paris exchange market are then compared with the exchange rates prevailing on specified base dates. The arithmetic average of the sum of the weighted variations arising from this comparison results in either a plus or a m inus overall variation of the U .S. dollar in terms of the other currencies in the basket; this variation is then applied to the ouguiya-U.S. dollar rate prevailing on June 29, 1973 (UM 46.041 = US$1), thus obtaining the reference rate for the dollar on the specific day. Daily exchange rates for 15 other curren- cies,1 including the currencies used in the basket, are obtained from the daily reference rate for the U .S. dollar and the cross rates for these currencies in the Paris exchange market. Mauritania confines the official exchange rate for the ouguiya within margins of 4.5 percent; at present, it applies margins of zero percent in respect of exchange transactions. There are no taxes or subsidies on pur- chases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank and the Minister of Finance. The Central Bank has delegated some approval authority to authorized banks. The Central Bank is authorized to obtain any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Trade Department in the Ministry of Commerce. All import licenses require exchange control approval by the Cen- tral Bank. Prescription of Currency All settlements w i th Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Settlements with other countries u sua l ly take place in convertible currencies. 'Aus tr ian sch i l l ings, Be lg ian f ranc s, Canad ian do l la rs, Dan i sh kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese y e n, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss f rancs. Nonresident Accounts There are two k inds of nonresident accounts in domestic currency: Convertible Accounts, wh ich may be credited only w i th proceeds from the sale of foreign currency or transfers from other Convertible Accounts, and Internal Nonresident Accounts, which may be credited w i th domestic bank notes. Convertible Ac- counts may be debited for any payment without central bank approval, but payments to and withdrawals from these accounts may not be made in foreign bank notes w i thout special approval from the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited, and imports of a few goods are prohibited for reasons of health or public policy. Only holders of importer- exporter cards are permitted to engage in import transac- t ions. Imports of all commodities must be authorized by the Central Bank. The National Import-Export Corpora- tion (SON IMEX) has a monopoly over imports of sugar, rice, and green tea. A l though there is no formal import program, authorizations can be denied if the volume of imports in any period is deemed excessive. There are some arrears on import payments. Import transactions must be domiciled with an autho- rized bank, except in the case of imports ''without paymen t ." A f ter the approval of the Central Bank has been obtained, the import license entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than ten days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the com- modities have already arrived. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. The Central Bank authorizes only the payment of import bills quo t ing f .o .b. or c. & f. prices, and all imports must be insured with the Mauritanian State Insurance Company (SMAR ). There are special arrangements for imports in border areas. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Paymen ts for inv i s ib les to other countries are subject to the approval of the Central Bank, wh ich has delegated its approval au thor i ty for certain specified payments to authorized banks. Basic exchange allocations have been established for various types of invisibles. For tourist travel, residents may obtain an annual exchange allocation equivalent to UM 10,000 a person (UM 5,000 for children under ten). For business t rave l, the allocations are the equivalent of UM 50,000 a person a trip to African countries, UM 90,000 to Europe, and UM 120,000 to other destinations. The use of all travel allocations must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet. The transfer of savings 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA from salaries by foreigners working in Mauritania is permitted up to varying percentages, according to fam i ly status. At the end of their stay in Maur i tan ia, they may transfer all their assets abroad. Travelers are not allowed to take out domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all countries in excess of UM 5,000 must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. Exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange pro- ceeds. Exports to all countries require authorization and endorsement by the Central Bank. Export proceeds must be surrendered not later than the due date of the payment, wh ich normally must not be more than 60 days after shipment. Exports of gum arabic are the monopoly of SONIMEX, and exports of iron ore are the monopoly of the National Industrial and M in ing Company (SNIM). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered. All amounts due from nonresidents in respect of services and all income earned abroad from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered w i th in four months of the due date of the paymen t. The importation of domestic bank notes by travelers is prohibited. Capital Transfers of capital between Mauritania and Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Mauritania and all foreign countries are subject to exchange control; capital transfers to all countries re- quire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts normally are permitted free ly, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Maur i tan ia may require approval, as indicated below. All investments abroad by residents require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Foreign direct invest- ments in Maur i tan ia2 and Mau r i tan ian direct investments abroad3 must be declared to the Central Bank before they are made. The Central Bank has the right to request the postponement of the projects w i th in 15 days from receipt of the declaration. The fu ll or partial liquidation of inward or outward investment also requires a declara- tion. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whe ther these are Mauritanian investments abroad or foreign investments in Mauritania, must be reported to the Central Bank w i th in 20 days following each opera- tion. Direct investments are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania requires prior authorization by the Central Bank, as does borrowing by residents from nonresidents. The Investment Code (Ordinance No. 79046 of March 15, 1979) provides for various benefits for private investments in Mauritania and stipulates that profits and d iv idends accruing from such investment can be trans- ferred free ly. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. All imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Exempt from th is requirement are imports and exports by the Central Bank and of manufactured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles). Changes During 1983 Payments for Invisibles Payments arrears emerged during the year in respect of interest payments on external debt. Capital Payments arrears emerged during the year in respect of amortization of external debt. 2Inc lud ing those made by companies in Mau r i tan ia that are d irec t ly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Mau r i tan ia of foreign companies. 3 Inc lud ing those made through foreign companies that are directly or ind irec t ly controlled by persons in Mau r i tan ia and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Maur i tan ia. 326 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mau r i t ius is the M a u r i t i an Rupee, which is pegged to an und isc losed, trade-we igh ted basket of major partner coun tr ies' currencies. The Bank of Maur i t ius applies marg ins of 0 .125 percent to the buying rate and 0.25 percent to the se l l ing rate in respect of exchange transactions in French f ranc s, s te r l ing, and U .S. dollars, based on the f ixed peg to the basket of currencies. On December 31, 1983 the b u y i ng and selling rates of the Bank of M au r i t ius were Mau Rs 18.4233 and Mau Rs 18.4933, respec t ive ly, per £ stg. 1, Mau Rs 12.7066 and Mau Rs 12.7533, respectively, per US$1, and Mau Rs 1.5200 and Mau Rs 1.5333, respec t ive ly, per F 1. Commercial banks are authorized to deal in the French f ranc, s te r l ing, and the U .S. dollar at rates based on the rates quoted by the Bank of Maur i t ius for these currenc ies. Ma rg ins a l lowed between buy ing and selling rates for commercial banks are 1 percent for transactions in pound s te r l ing, 1.5 per- cent for the U . S. do l lar, and 2 .2 percent for te legraph ic transfers in the French franc. Commercial bank s' b u y i ng and selling rates for other fore ign cu r renc ies1 are determined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in the London market and the cost of forward cover in appropriate cases. Forward exchange fac i l i t ies are made available by the Bank of M au r i t ius for indus t r ies operat- ing in the Export Processing Zone and for banks engaged in foreign borrowing for on- lend ing to the sugar sector. The max imum period for forward cover is six mon ths; the forward rates are based on a un i fo rm marg in of 3 per- cent a year. A stamp du ty of 45 percent is applied to outward transfers of capital (other than bank ing f u n d s) and purchases of gold coin and gold b u l l i o n. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Bank of Maur i t ius under powers delegated to it by the F inanc ial Secretary. The au thor i ty for approving v i r t u a l ly all current paymen ts is in turn delegated to the commercial banks. The M in is try of Trade and Sh ipp ing is responsi- ble for the issue of import and export pe rm i ts, where required. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes M a u r i t i us dis- t ingu ishes between countries in the former S te r l ing Area2 and External Account coun t r ies. Paymen ts to residents of former S ter l ing Area countries may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account in Mau r i t ius or in any currency of the former S ter l ing Area. Paymen ts from 'The exchange control regu la t ions of M a u r i t i us d e f i ne currenc ies as a ll currencies o ther t h an the M a u r i t i an rupee. 2The exchange control regu la t ions of M a u r i t i us d e f i ne the S te r l ing Area as comprising the Un i ted K ingdom, the Channel Is lands, the Isle of M a n, and the R e p u b l ic of I r e l a n d. fo re ign residents of the former Sterling Area may be received in rupees from a Sterling Area Account in Maur i t ius or in any currency of the former Sterling Area. Payments to residents of countries outside the former Sterling Area may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account or an External Account in Mau r i t iu s, in sterling to an External Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Payments from residents of countries outside the former Sterling Area may be received in rupees from an External Account in Maur i t ius, in sterling from an External Account in the United King- dom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Nonresident Accounts There are two ma in types of nonresident accounts: Sterling Area Accoun ts and External Accounts. S ter l ing Area Accoun ts, wh ich may be opened by persons and f i rms resident in countries of the former S ter l ing Area (see footnote 2) may be credited with (1) au thor ized paymen ts by residents of Maur i t ius; (2) any transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any paymen ts from External Accounts held in M a u r i t i us or elsewhere in the former Sterling Area; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any fore ign currency or gold by nonresidents of Maur i t ius. They may be debited for ( 1) paymen ts from residents of the former S ter l ing Area to residents of Maur i t ius; (2) t rans fe rs to other S ter l ing Area Accounts; (3) trans- fers to Ex ternal Accoun ts in Mau r i t ius or elsewhere in the former S ter l ing Area in respect of wh ich the perm iss ion of the exchange control authorities in the appropriate coun t ry has been g iven; and (4) the cost of purchase of any former S ter l ing Area currency. Ex ternal Accoun ts may be opened by persons and f i rms res ident outside both M au r i t ius and the former S te r l ing Area. They may be credited w i th ( 1) authorized paymen ts by residents of M au r i t iu s; (2) paymen ts from S te r l ing Area Accoun ts in respect of wh ich the permis- sion of the exchange control au thor i t ies of the appropri- ate coun t ry has been g iven; (3) any transfers from other Ex te rnal Accoun ts; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an au thor ized dealer of any non-S ter l ing Area currency or gold by non res iden ts of M au r i t ius and the former S te r l ing Area. They may be debited for ( 1) any payments to res iden ts of M a u r i t i u s; (2) any transfers to Sterling Area Accoun ts; (3) any t rans fe rs to other External Accoun ts; and (4) the cost of purchase of any foreign currency or go ld. In add i t ion to the above, there are also Blocked Accoun ts to w h i ch are credited funds owned by persons and f i rms res ident ou ts ide M a u r i t ius and realized from inves tmen ts made by them prior to Apr il 5, 1966, as well as funds represen t ing em ig ran t s' assets in excess of Mau Rs 100,000. Such accounts may be credited w i th paymen ts by res iden ts of M au r i t ius that have been 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS specifically authorized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from Blocked Accounts may, w i th approval, be invested in Mau r i t iu s. Upon the realization of such investments, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Account. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be licensed under the Licenses Ordi- nance. Under the Supplies (Control of Imports) Regula- tions of 1982, all imports other than goods exempted or prohibited, as specified in the th ird and four th schedules, respectively, require import permits from the M in is t ry of Trade and Shipping; the permits are essen t ia l ly for statistical and tax purposes. Import permits for certain items in the first schedule ("controlled goods") that are manufac tured locally or considered as luxu r ies are subject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions. Import permits are granted automatically for most other items in the first and second (pharmaceutical products) schedules. In addition to an import license, importers must apply for exchange control approval to make the corresponding import payments, subject to compliance w i th the pre- scription of currency regu la t ions. Certain imports are subject to customs surcharges, and a stamp du ty of 12 percent based on the c . i . f. va lue is levied on most imports. Importers of goods of lower priority may not avail themselves of suppliers' credits, and local commer- cial banks are prohibited from ex tend ing credit for such imports. The contracting of supp l iers' credit of more than 90 days' duration in respect of other categories of imports requires the prior approval of the Bank of Mau r i t iu s, except for imports effected by companies holding a development certificate or by companies in the Export Processing Zone. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports require the prior approval of the exchange control au tho r i t ies. Foreign exchange for other purposes, such as foreign travel, may be provided up to specified l im i ts by the commercial banks w i thout prior reference to the ex- change control au thor i t ies. The basic travel allowance is the equ iva lent of £ stg. 400 a person for every two calendar years for travel to any coun t ry. There is a 10 percent tax on all in terna t ional air tickets purchased by Maur i t ian residents. The allowance for bus iness travel is the equ iva lent of £ stg. 50 a day. Applications for exchange for business travel are examined by the Bank of Mau r i t ius. There are established l im i ts for payments and transfers to former Sterling Area countries and to non-Sterling Area countries in respect of fam i ly support, salary remittances by non -Mau r i t ian na t iona ls, trade commissions, subscriptions to c lubs and societies, pub l ish ing r igh ts, advertising outside M au r i t iu s, royal- ties, professional and techn ical services, educa t ion, and leave salaries. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. 328 Residents and nonresident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of (1) articles made who l ly or partially of gold, p la t inum, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art are prohibited, unless permission is obtained from the Financial Secretary. All exports valued at more than Mau Rs 1,000 and all exports of food products valued at over Mau Rs 50 require a license from the Ministry of Trade and Shipping. Exports of certain foods tuffs, inc lud ing fru i ts, are controlled. The Maur i t ius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar. A tax ranging from 6 percent to 13.5 percent, plus a surcharge of 75 percent thereon, is levied on the f .o .b. value of sugar exports. All export proceeds in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. However, permission may be given to large export- import companies to retain export proceeds for a rea- sonable period of time to meet payments for imports. Exports of kn it shirts and sweaters of cotton, wool, and man-made fibers to the United States are effected under a bilateral export restraint agreement covering the period up to September 30, 1985. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency other than Mau r i t ian rupees must be offered for sale to an autho- rized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coin that may be imported, but not more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coin may be imported by travelers. Capital Inwa rd transfers of capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are subject to certain restrictions. Nonbank residents of Mau r i t ius may, subject to permis- sion, transfer a reasonable amount of capital to any country on payment of a 45 percent stamp duty. Nonresidents require permission to transfer capital to any coun try; transfers are subject to the stamp duty of 45 percent and, if directed toward a country outside the former Sterling Area by a resident of the former Sterling Area, require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities of the former Sterling Area country con- cerned. Foreign-owned companies may freely transfer abroad d iv idends, profits, and interest on capital. Per- mission for repatriation of capital is not granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the coun try of or ig in, b u t, in normal circumstances, it is given for capital brought in on or after that date. Proceeds from the sale, l iqu ida t ion, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatriated must be credited to Blocked Accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Emigrants may take ou t, at the off ic ial rate of exchange and free of stamp d u t y, the equ iva lent of Mau Rs 100,000 from their Mauritian assets when emigrating to any country; this fac i l i ty is ava i lab le upon redesignation as a nonresident, wh ich occurs upon departure. The balance of an em igran t's funds must be credited for an indefinite period to a Blocked Accoun t; any releases that may be approved for transfer abroad are subject to payment of the 45 percent stamp d u t y. Persons emigrating from Mauritius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the emigration facilities. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold for num isma t ic purposes ( inc lud- ing commemorative gold coins of Mau Rs 200 and Mau Rs 1,000) or as personal jewe l ry and ornaments. The import and export of monetary gold are proh ib i ted, except when made by the monetary au thor i t ies. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a quota and specific import permit. Exports of articles made who l ly MAURITIUS or par t ia l ly of gold, other than jewe lry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Payments in respect of private imports of gold coin and gold bu l l ion are subject to the 45 percent stamp du ty. Imports of certain jewe l ry are subject to temporary customs surcharges. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement January 17. The Bank of Mauritius started spot foreign exchange dea l ings w i th commercial banks in French francs along w i th sterling and the U .S. dollar. February 28. The peg for the Mau r i t ian rupee was changed from the SDR to a trade-weighted basket of currencies more representative of the geographical pat- tern of the coun t ry 's trade; the modification was effected in such a way as to ma in ta in the foreign exchange value of the Mau r i t ian rupee. Imports and Import Payments December 18. Import restrictions on some 22 different items were l i f t ed. 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mexico is the Mex ican Peso. There are two exchange marke ts, the controlled market and the free market. The exchange rates in both marke ts are adjusted d a i ly, based on the d i f fe ren t ial be tween the rates of in f la t ion expected in Mexico and its ma in trad ing partners and other indicators that inc lude developments in the terms of trade, levels of exports and impor ts, movements in foreign exchange reserves, and ava i lab i l- ity of external f inanc ing. Transactions at the controlled market rate include (a) merchandise export receipts (w i th some exceptions); (b) payments by in-bond indus tr ies for wages, salaries, leasings or ren ts, and the purchase of Mexican goods and services, other than f ixed assets; (c) paymen ts of p r inc ipa l, in teres t, and related expenses resulting from f inanc ial and supp l ie rs' credits by the public and private sector; (d) paymen ts of certain imports authorized by the Secretariat of Commerce and Indu s t r ial Promotion; (e) expenses in relation to the Mex ican foreign service and con tr ibu t ions regarding Mex ico 's membership in international organizations; and ( f) other transactions spec if ica l ly au thor ized by the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit and the Bank of Mex ico ( the central bank ). On December 3 1, 1983 the b u y i ng and selling rates in the controlled market were Mex$143 .88 and Mex$143.98 per US$1, respec t ive ly. W i th cer ta in exceptions (described be low), all other transac t ions are effected through the free ma rke t. W i t h in the free market no limitations apply to the access to, owne r sh ip, or transfer of foreign exchange. As of December 3 1, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates for the U . S. do l lar in the free market were Mex$160.60 and Mex$162 .10 per US$1, respectively. Certain ob l iga t ions denom ina ted in foreign exchange and payable in Mexico are settled at a special exchange rate established by the Bank of Mexico. The Bank of Mex ico, th rough the Trust Fund for the Coverage of Foreign Exchange R isk (F icORCA) provides foreign exchange for the repayment of certain foreign debt obligations in respect of debt contracted w i th foreign f inanc ial en t i t ies and suppliers on or before December 20, 1982. All Mex ican credit i n s t i t u t i o ns as well as foreign exchange houses are authorized to operate in the free market but cannot intervene in forward transactions for pesos, other than in respect of those approved to banks by the Bank of Mexico under the exchange coverage sys tem. As a temporary measu re, the am o u nt of fore ign exchange in the free market sold by banks to i n d i v i d u a ls and enterprises is made subject to p ruden t ial l im i t s. No l im i ts exist on the number of transac t ions that can be effected by any single ind iv idual or enterprise. On ly the exchange facilities located in international airports or the border area are authorized to sell foreign notes. Mex ican 330 credit in s t i tu t ions and foreign exchange houses are free to purchase e i ther currency or documents denominated in foreign exchange. On November 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared formally to accept the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t. Administration of Control Foreign exchange policies are established by the Secretariat of Finance and Pub l ic Credit and the Bank of Mexico. The Na t ional Foreign Inves tment Commission sets policies w i th regard to direct investment in Mexico by foreigners. The exchange control system is adminis- tered by the Bank of Mexico, with Mexican credit ins t i tu t ions carrying out most of the transactions in the controlled marke t. The Secretariat of Commerce and Indu s t r ial Promotion establishes policies w i th respect to import and export controls and import and export duties, and adm in is te rs import and export l icens ing procedures. Prescription of Currency Apart from the exceptions described below there are no ob l iga t ions prescribing the method or currency for paymen ts to or from nonresidents, neither in the free nor in the controlled marke t, but obligations deriving from the se l l ing of foreign exchange in the controlled market mu st be made in the currencies approved by the Bank of Mexico. In accordance w i th the paymen ts agreements w i th A rgen t ina, Bo l iv ia, B raz i l, Ch i le, Colombia, Dom in ican R epub l i c, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- g u a y, and Venezue la, payments to or from those countries must be made through accounts maintained w i th each other by the Bank of Mexico and the central bank of the coun try concerned, w i th in the framework of the mu l t i la te ral clearing system of the Latin American In tegra t ion Association (LA IA ). Paymen ts to or from Costa R ica, El Sa lvador, Gua tema la, Honduras, and N ica ragua in respect of trade and inv i s ib le transactions mu st be settled in U .S. dollars in accordance with a reciprocal credit and payment agreement between the central banks of these countries. S im i lar arrangements exist w i th Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and Yugos lav ia. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses from the Secretariat of Commerce and Indu s t r i al Promotion are required for most of the items in Mex ico 's General Import Tar iff. All imports to free trade and border areas are subject to l icens ing, with the exception of temporary imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export production. For some commodities "open-end" import licenses may be granted a l low ing imports to be effected dur ing a period of six months to one year, subject to an overall l im i t. Depend- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing on the importer's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. Applications for import licenses are screened by the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Promotion; no licenses are granted for a specified list of luxury goods and products for which there are domes- tically produced substitutes. The Secretariat of Com- merce and Industrial Promotion is in charge of speci- fying the list of items for which foreign exchange settlement can be made through the controlled market. In addition, most imports needed for the production of export items have access to the controlled market. All other nonspecified import payments must be settled through the free market. Most import licenses are subject to the payment of a fee of between 1 percent and 17 percent of the value of the import transaction; the proceeds are allocated to a fund handled by the Mexican Foreign Trade Institute (IMCE) for the promotion of export. Official m in imum prices are applied to about 25 percent of import items, for the purpose of assessing of import duties. Imports by official Mexican agencies are subject to prior approval by the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Promotion; this approval is not given if a comparable domestic equivalent is available at a price differential not exceeding a range of 15-20 percent. All imports must be accompanied by an exporter's declara- tion of shipment. With the exception of imports included in the tariff negotiation rounds of LAIA countries and temporary imports, imports are subject to an import surcharge of 2 percent ad valorem, the proceeds of which accrue to an export trust fund established w i th the Bank of Mexico. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. The con- tracting of insurance for persons in Mexico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico, or may occur in Mexico, is permitted only with Mexican companies or with foreign companies' branches operating in accor- dance with Mexican law. The payment of principal, interest, and related ex- penses on public and private sector debt w i th foreign financial entities and Mexican commercial banks can be effected through the controlled market. Payments for the Mexican foreign service and contributions to Mexico's membership to international organizations, as well as payment related to expenses of foreign trade, are effected through the controlled market. Other payments for invisibles can be made through the free market, without limits. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses, and exportation of a few other specified items is prohibited. All merchandise export receipts in excess of Mex$200,000 a week are subject to export surrender requirements in the controlled market. Special procedures apply for the surrender of export proceeds beyond the standard limit of 30 days. MEXICO For each day's delay beyond 30 days, Mex$0.05 is discounted from the exchange rate applicable at the time of surrender. If the sale takes place after 90 days from the date of shipment, the applicable exchange rate is that prevailing on the thirtieth day after the shipment. In cases of exceptions authorized by the Secretariat of Commerce for surrender of export proceeds for a period between 30 and 90 days from actual shipment, the discount from the prevailing exchange rate is applicable for the period after the authorized date. Exporting enterprises are authorized to open special accounts in local currency; but only proceeds from exports can be deposited in such accounts. Interest payable on these deposits is equivalent to the rate of depreciation of the controlled exchange rate against the U .S. dollar plus the corresponding Eurodollar deposit rates. Mexican com- mercial banks are also authorized to accept deposits in U .S. dollars by Mexican export enterprises and grant loans in foreign currency for the production, shipment, storage, and long-term financing of exports. Such deposits can only be constituted in foreign currency, cannot be used as demand deposits, and must not earn an interest rate higher than the LIBOR plus 1 percent. Individual deposit accounts under this scheme must be for a m in imum of US$5,000, with the exception of deposits made by enterprises in the free trade zones and border areas. Credits to such accounts must be made in U .S. dollars, and repayments are in foreign currency abroad. Exporters are also eligible to purchase imported inputs at the controlled market rate, for amounts at least equivalent to the value of their exports. Prior to obtaining the corresponding import licenses, exporters can use up to 20 percent of their proceeds for the repayment of suppliers' credits outstanding prior to December 20, 1982. Proceeds from Invisibles In-bond industries are required to surrender foreign exchange through the controlled market for the payment of wages, salaries, leasings or rents, taxes, etc., and the purchase of Mexican goods and services other than fixed assets. In-bond industries must effect these foreign exchange transactions through Mexican credit institu- tions. No other exchange control requirements apply to proceeds from invisibles. Capital The Federal Government, other government entities, and companies based in Mexico are required to sell at the controlled market the proceeds of loans obtained from financial institutions abroad or from Mexican credit institutions and repayable abroad. Borrowing agencies and enterprises are exempt from the surrender require- ment only when the loan proceeds are used for the servicing of reported external debt with the approval of the Bank of Mexico, or for import payments authorized by the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Promo- tion. The servicing of debt contracted after Decem- ber 20, 1982 (including principal, interest, and related 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO expenses) can be effected through the controlled market. The Bank of Mexico provides foreign exchange for the repayment of certain foreign debt obligations ou ts tand- ing as of December 20, 1982 through an exchange coverage system. Only long-term debt or debt restruc- tured to cover the long term has access to this fac i l i ty. In order to have access to the exchange coverage system, all debts with foreign f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions must be either registered w i th the Secretariat of Finance and Pub l ic Credit or, in the case of suppliers' credits, w i th the Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Promotion. New direct foreign investment in Mexican bank ing or insur- ance companies and investment funds is prohibited. Certain sectors, such as petroleum, basic petrochemical production, radioactive minerals, electricity and nuclear energy, certain mining activities, railroads, telecom- munications, and other activities specified by Mexican laws, are reserved for government inves tmen t. Inves t- ment in a number of activities is reserved exc lu s ive ly for Mexican individuals or corporations (radio and televi- sion, the public transportation system, forestry, as well as any other areas specified by the Federal Government), while new investments in other sectors must have a majority participation of Mexican cap i ta l, except in those cases specifically approved by the Na t ional Foreign Investment Commission. Direct foreign invest- ments in Mexico must be registered w i th the National Foreign Investment Register in the Secretariat of Com- merce and Industrial Promotion (SECOF i). App l ica t ions by foreign individuals or enterprises to acquire more than 25 percent of the capital of a Mexican company require the prior authorization of the National Foreign Invest- ment Commission. All acquisitions of stock in Mexican companies by foreigners must be registered w i t h in 30 days. Borrowing abroad (or w i th in Mexico in foreign currency) by the pub l ic sector is subject to approval by the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit. F inanc ial operations in Mexico by foreign f inanc ial entities must be made in accordance w i th guidelines set by the Bank of Mexico and the Secretariat of Finance and Pub l ic Credit. Peso loans by foreign f inanc ial entities to the pub l ic and private sectors in Mexico are discouraged. Deposits denominated in foreign currency w i th Mexican credit institutions are authorized only in special cases. Special accounts denominated in foreign currency can be opened by diplomatic delegations, international organ iza t ions and their employees, as well as foreign press correspon- dents. Withdrawals in local currency are made at the free exchange rate. Special compensation accounts opened du r ing the period September 1-December 19, 1982 are ma in ta ined subject to the conditions prevailing at the t ime of the opening of each account, a l though transactions are effected at current exchange rates. Export companies can open special peso accounts linked to export surrender of foreign exchange, bearing interest equ iva lent to the rate of depreciation of the controlled exchange rate against the U .S. dollar, plus the corresponding Eurodollar deposit rate. 332 Foreign exchange accounts can also be opened by enterprises in border areas and free trade zones and by in-bond indus t r ies. The interest paid on these deposits cannot exceed the Eurodollar sight deposit rates for the period of deposit. Conversion into Mexican pesos is effected at corresponding exchange rates ( i .e ., in-bond industries at the controlled rate for specific purposes, free market rate for enterprises in border and free trade zones). Gold Domestic transactions in nonmonetary gold are lim- ited to purchases of gold bars by goldsmiths or manufac- turers effected through authorized Mexican credit institu- tions. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell monetary gold in Mexico. There is a value-added tax of 15 percent on sales of nonmonetary gold. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement January 3. The Bank of Mexico announced that the rate in the controlled exchange market was applicable to all obligations in foreign currency with respect to debt contracted prior to December 20, 1982 and negotiable in Mexico, provided that such obligations were in the form of l iab i l i t ies to Mex ican banks for export-related f inanc ing. January 31. The general import duty rates for items importable through the controlled market were reduced on average by 10 percentage points. February 28. The Bank of Mexico introduced a scheme to cover the settlement of such obligations of Mexican enterprises to foreign suppliers as were on account of debt contracted on or before December 20, 1982. The scheme provided for domestic borrowers to deposit the peso equ iva lent of payments due as of December 20, 1982, and all fur ther payments falling due up to June 1983 on those obligations, at the exchange rate preva i l ing in the controlled market on the deposit date; the do l lar equ iva lent would accrue interest at the same rate as the s ix -mon th LIBOR. The Trust Fund for the Coverage of Foreign Exchange Risk (FicORCA) wou ld assume the obligation in the case of foreign lenders agreeing to a transfer of the deposit as a means of paymen t. Repayment terms were scheduled to be an- nounced by J u ly 15, 1983. April 6. The Bank of Mexico announced the proce- dures for settlement of private sector foreign financial obligations ou ts tand ing as of December 20, 1982 and registered either w i th the Secretariat of Finance and Pub l ic Credit or w i th the Secretariat of Commerce and Indus t r ial Promotion. The new regulation envisaged four a l terna t ive procedures for settlement, based on the coverage of the contract (principal or principal plus interest) and on the f inanc ing by the private borrowers (own or borrowed resources); in all cases a prior agreement between borrower and foreign lender was requ ired. The forward cover scheme would be operated by F ICORCA, wh ich assumed on ly the obligation to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution deliver the foreign exchange to the domestic borrower on the basis of a repayment schedu le agreed between the local borrower and the fo re ign cred i tor. May 17. The Bank of Mex ico announced that de- posits made for the purpose of se t t l ing ob l ig a t ions w i th foreign suppliers (announced on February 28) were to earn interest at the rate of 9.2 percent a yea r, and th at the repayment scheme abroad wou ld be announced not la ter than August 15, 1983. June 1. The Bank of Mexico announced the exchange rates applicable to forward cover t ransac t ions under FlCORCA schemes Numbers 1 and 2 for the settlement of private f inanc ial ob l iga t ions (coverage of p r in c ip al only). Similar announcements mod i fy ing the rates were made subsequen t ly on a mon th ly bas is. June 22. The Bank of Mexico au thor ized the payment abroad on obligations w i th respect to debt contracted on or before December 20, 1982 w i th fore ign cred i tors and guaranteed by local commerc ial b ank s. July 19. The Bank of Mex ico announced that short- term private obligations to fore ign supp l ie rs due be tween Ju ly 1 and December 19, 1983 could be se t t led th rough the controlled exchange ma rke t. No p repayment was authorized. August 3. The Bank of Mex ico es tab l ished a scheme to cover the se t t lement of p r iva te o b l i g a t i o ns due to foreign suppliers between J u ly 1 and December 19, 1983, and h av ing an o r ig inal m a t u r i ty of one year or more. The domestic borrowers could deposit the peso equ iva lent of the payment at F ICORCA, at the con t ro l led market exchange rate on the deposit date; F ICORCA wou ld assume the ob l iga t ion in the case of fo re ign lende rs agreeing to a t rans fer of the deposit as a means of paymen t. Repayment terms were scheduled to be an- nounced on November 7 and November 2 1, 1983. August 26. The Bank of Mex ico announced the repayment schedule under the scheme cover ing the settlement of ob l iga t ions of M ex i c an en te rp r ises to foreign suppliers. The schedu le prov ided for the Bank of Mexico to make available 50 percent of the p r inc ipal and interest payments by September 8, 1983, prov ided that the deposit rights were transmitted to the creditor before August 15, 1983. The rema inder was to be pa id on the f if th working day of March 1984 for loans that had been registered prior to February 15, 1984. Other loans were to be paid on the f i f th wo rk ing day of March 1985. September 30. The Bank of Mex ico announced that the counterpart deposits for the se t t lement of ob l iga t ions to foreign suppliers under the scheme es tab l ished on February 28, 1983 wou ld earn interest at an annu al rate of 10.8 percent for the period September 9, 1983- March 7, 1984. November 7. Under the scheme announced on Au- gust 3, 1983 for lodg ing counterpart deposits for set- tlement of obligations to foreign supp l ie r s, the Bank of Mexico announced that paymen ts for depos i ts made between August 3 and October 31, 1983 wou ld be effected on the f i f th wo rk ing day of March 1984, MEXICO provided that deposit r igh ts were t ransm i t ted to the creditors by J anu a ry 31, 1984. November 21. The Bank of Mex ico announced tha t, under the A u g u st 3, 1983 scheme for settlement of ob l ig a t ions to foreign supp l i e r s, deposits made between November 1, 1983 and J anu a ry 13, 1984 wou ld be e l ig ib le for se t t lement on the f i f th wo rk ing day of March 1984, provided that deposit r igh ts were transm i t- ted to the cred i tor by J a n u a ry 3 1, 1984. Imports and Import Payments January 31. The general import du ty rates for items impo r tab le th rough the con t ro l led market were reduced by 10 percen tage po in t s. March 31. The Secretariat of Commerce and Indus- t r i al Promo t ion issued a decree m a k i ng all imports to free trade zones and border areas subject to prior l i c en s ing. May 6. Temporary impor ts of raw ma te r ia ls and in te rmed ia te goods for export produc t ion were exempted from pr ior l i c e n s i n g. December 26. The number of items exempted from prior import l icen s ing was increased to 1,703 (1 ,430 intermediate goods, 262 capital goods, and 1 1 consump- t ion goods) and ce r ta in raw ma te r ia ls and intermediate goods not ava i lab le locally were shifted to unrestricted l i c e n s i ng at the free ma rket exchange ra te. In add i t ion, it was announced t h at un res t r ic ted import au tho r iza t ion wou ld be granted for cer ta in essen t ial i tems such as P h a rm a c e u t i c a l s. Payments for Invisibles January 31. The Bank of Mexico announced the ex ten s ion f rom J a n u a ry 31 to February 28, 1983 of the f i n al date for payment of interest by private debtors to fo re ign comme rc ial b ank s. The scheme covered all in te rest paymen ts on debt ou t s t and ing prior to Decem- ber 20, 1982, and due be tween A u g u st 1, 1982 and J a n u a ry 3 1, 1983. February 3. The B ank of Mex ico gran ted au tho r iza- t ion for the sale of fo re ign exchange at the controlled rate for the p a ym e nt of in te rest due a f ter J anu a ry 3 1, 1983 on debt owed to (a) comme rc ial banks abroad, (b) Mex ican f i n a n c i al i n s t i t u t i o n s, and (c) lenders under the "special f i n a n c i al p rog ram ." The m a x im um in terest rate per- mitted under the scheme was specified as 2.5 percentage po in ts over L IBOR or the U .S. p r ime ra te, depend ing on the na ture of ind iv idu al obligations. February 4. The Bank of Mex ico announced the payment of in terest and of 10 percent of such ob l iga t ions to fore ign comme rc ial banks for wh i ch counterpart deposits had been made by February 10. (The deposit accoun ts were opened by the Bank of Mex ico for the se t t lement of in te rest ob l ig a t ions by p r iva te debtors w i th fo re ign f i n a n c i al i n s t i t u t i o n s .) March 30. The Bank of Mex ico announced the pos tponement to Ap r il 29, 1983 of the f i n al date for p aym ent of in te rest by pr iva te debtors to fo re ign com- mercial bank s. (Fur ther postponements of such payments were announced on May 9 and on J u ne 1 to J u ne 30.) 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO April 6. The Bank of Mexico announced the payment of interest and of 5 percent of such obligations to foreign commercial banks for wh ich counterpart deposits had been made by March 31, 1983 in respect of debt by the private sector outstanding as of December 20, 1982. The payment was scheduled to be made on April 11. May 27. The Bank of Mexico announced the payment of interest and of 5 percent of such obligations to foreign commercial banks for which counterpart deposits had been made by April 30, 1983 w i th respect to interest payments in arrears as of December 20, 1982. The payment was scheduled to be made effec t ive on May 31. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The Bank of Mexico announced that the rate in the controlled exchange market was applicable to all obligations in foreign currency outstanding prior to December 20, 1982 and negotiable in Mexico, provided that such obligations were in the form of l iab i l i t ies to Mexican banks for export-related f inanc ing. January 6. The Bank of Mexico announced that the interest rate payable on deposits placed by exporters in local currency for the month of December 1982 wou ld be 58.56 percent. February 2. The interest rate on accounts in local currency held by exporters was set by the Bank of Mexico at 58 percent for the month of Janua ry, 1983. (Interest rates were also announced for foreign exchange deposits held by foreign commercial banks w i th the Bank of Mexico, and new rates were announced in subsequent months.) February 9. Special procedures were established for the surrender of export proceeds beyond the hitherto standard period of 30 days. For each day 's delay beyond 30 days, Mex$0.05 was to be discounted from the exchange rate applicable at the time of surrender. If the sale was to take place after 90 days from the date of shipment, the applicable exchange rate would be that of 30 days after shipment. In case of exceptions authorized by the Secretariat of Commerce and Indus tr ial Promotion for surrender of export proceeds w i th in a period between 30 and 90 days from actual sh ipmen t, the d iscount from the prevailing exchange rate would be applicable for the period after the authorized date. March 4. As a supplement to the General Decree of Foreign Exchange Control of December 13, 1982, the Secretariat of Commerce and Indus tr ial Promotion is- sued a decree regulating export transactions. April 26. The Bank of Mexico granted au thor iza t ion, with effect from May 2, 1983, for Mexican commercial banks to open deposits in U .S. dollars for Mexican export enterprises, and to grant loans in foreign currency for the production, shipment, storage, and long-term financing of exports. Such deposits could on ly be constituted in foreign currency, could not be used as demand deposits, and could not yield an interest rate in excess of LIBOR plus 1 percent. Each deposit was to be for a m in imum of US$5,000, except for deposits made by enterprises in the free trade zones and border areas. 334 Credits under the fac i l i ty were required to be granted in U .S. dollars and to be repaid in foreign currency abroad. April 26. The Secretariat of Commerce and Industrial Promotion modified the tax structure on exports. Capital February 2. The interest rate on accounts in local currency held by exporters was set by the Bank of Mexico at 58 percent for the month of January, 1983. (Interest rates were also announced for foreign exchange deposits held by foreign commercial banks w i th the Bank of Mexico, and new rates were announced in subsequent mon ths .) February 28. The Bank of Mexico introduced a scheme to cover the settlement of such obligations of Mexican enterprises to foreign suppliers as were out- standing on December 20, 1982. The scheme provided for domestic borrowers to deposit the peso equivalent of paymen ts due as of December 20, 1982, and all further paymen ts fa l l ing due up to June 1983 on those obliga- t ions, at the exchange rate prevailing in the controlled market on the deposit date; the dollar equivalent would accrue interest at the same rate as the six-month LIBOR. The Trust Fund for the Coverage of Foreign Exchange Risk (FicoRCA) wou ld assume the obligation in the case of foreign lenders agreeing to a transfer of the deposit as a means of paymen t. Repayment terms were scheduled to be announced by Ju ly 15, 1983. April 6. The Bank of Mexico announced the proce- dures for settlement of private sector foreign financial obligations outstanding as of December 20, 1982 and registered either w i th the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit or w i th the Secretariat of Commerce and Indus t r ial Promotion. The new regulation envisaged four alternative procedures for settlement, based on the coverage of the contract (principal or principal plus interest) and on the f inanc ing by the private borrowers (own or borrowed resources); in all cases a prior agreement between borrower and foreign lender was required. The forward cover scheme would be operated by FICORCA, wh ich was to assume only the obligation to deliver the foreign exchange to the domestic borrower on the basis of a repayment schedule agreed between the local borrower and the foreign creditor. April 20. The Bank of Mexico granted authorization for business enterprises either to repay or postpone for six months obligations emerging from forward cover transactions under the system of "reportos" May 17. The Bank of Mexico announced that the deposits made for the purpose of settling obligations with foreign suppliers (announced on February 28) were to earn interest at the rate of 9.2 percent a year, and that the repayment scheme abroad would be announced not later than August 15, 1983. June 1. The Bank of Mexico announced the exchange rates applicable to forward cover transactions under FICORCA schemes Numbers 1 and 2 for the settlement of private f inanc ial obligations (coverage of principal ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution only). Similar announcements mod i fy ing the rates were announced subsequently on a mon th ly basis. June 22. The Bank of Mexico authorized the payment abroad on obligations outstanding as of December 20, 1982 with foreign creditors and guaranteed by local commercial banks. July 19. The Bank of Mexico announced that short- term private obligations to foreign suppliers fa l l ing due between Ju ly 1 and December 19, 1983 could be settled through the controlled exchange market. Prepayments were not authorized. August 3. The Bank of Mexico established a scheme to cover the settlement of private obligations due to foreign suppliers between Ju ly 1 and December 19, 1983, and hav ing an original ma tur i ty of one year or more. The domestic borrowers could deposit the peso equivalent of the payment at FICORCA, at the controlled market exchange rate on the deposit date; FICORCA would assume the obligation in the case of foreign lenders agreeing to a transfer of the deposit as a means of payment. Repayment terms were scheduled to be an- nounced on November 7 and November 21, 1983. August 26. The Bank of Mexico announced the repayment schedule under the scheme covering the settlement of obligations of Mexican enterprises to foreign suppliers. The schedule provided for the Bank of Mexico to make available 50 percent of the principal and MEXICO interest payments by September 8, 1983, provided that the deposit rights were transmitted to the creditor before Augu st 15, 1983. The rema inder was to be paid on the f i f th working day of March 1984 for loans that had been registered prior to February 15, 1984. Other loans were to be paid on the f i f th working day of March 1985. September 30. The Bank of Mexico announced that the counterpart deposits for the settlement of obligations to foreign suppliers under the scheme established on February 28, 1983 wou ld earn interest at an annual rate of 10.8 percent for the period September 9, 1983- March 7, 1984. November 7. Under the scheme announced on Au- gust 3, 1983 for lodging counterpart deposits for set- tlement of obligations to foreign suppliers, the Bank of Mexico announced that payments for deposits made between Augu st 3 and October 31, 1983 would be effected on the f i f th working day of March 1984, provided that deposit rights were transmitted to the creditors by Janua ry 31, 1984. November 21. The Bank of Mexico announced that, under the Augu st 3, 1983 scheme for settlement of obligations to foreign suppliers, deposits made between November 1, 1983 and Janua ry 13, 1984 would be eligible for settlement on the f i f th working day of March 1984, provided that deposit rights were transmit- ted to the creditor by Janua ry 31, 1984. 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position on December 31, 1983} Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan D irham. The Bank of Morocco f ixes buy ing and selling rates for the French franc da i ly on the basis of variations in the value of the currencies of Morocco's pr inc ipal trad ing partners, weighted in accordance w i th the geographic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade and the pattern of currencies of settlement. Buy ing and selling rates for most other currencies quoted in Morocco1 are estab- lished on the basis of the da i ly dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in relation to the French franc in the Paris exchange market. On Decem- ber 30, 1983 the exchange rate for the French franc was DH 0.96423 buying and DH 0.96713 selling, per F 1. On the same date, the exchange rate for the U .S. dollar was fixed at DH 8.0436 buy ing and DH 8.0784 se l l ing, per US$1. A special prem ium, called the "fidelity p rem ium ," is paid by the banks on remittances by Moroccans working in France. Beginning from Ju ly 1, 1982 the premium is defined as a fixed rate of 5 percent of the local currency value of such remittances. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to offset purchases and sales on behalf of private customers in each currency separately. Each day authorized banks must purchase from or sell to the Bank of Morocco the balances of the ir purchases and sales in each currency; transactions are effected at rates fixed by the Bank. Compensation between banks is not permitted so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco also establishes buy ing and selling rates for transactions w i th travelers in bank notes, traveler's checks, and letters of credit denomi- nated in "convertible currencies" (the currencies listed in footnote 1, inc lud ing the French franc but exc lud ing the Tunisian dinar) and specified other currenc ies ;2 the authorized banks sell to the Bank of Morocco the ir excess holdings of bank notes and replenish them at the Bank when necessary. A forward foreign exchange cover facility was established by the authorities effec t ive June 1, 1979; the facility is available for exports as we ll as imports of items benefiting from special customs arrangements. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This 1 Aus tr ian sch i l l ings, Be lg ian francs, Canad ian do l la r s, Dan i sh kroner, deutsche mark, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese y en, K uw a i ti d ina r s, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Spanish pesetas, Swed ish kroner, Sw iss francs, Tunisian dinars, U .A . E. d i rhams, and U .S. do l lars. 2CFA f rancs, F inn ish markkaa, G ibra l tar pounds, Lebanese pounds, and Libyan dinars. L ibyan dinars are traded on ly by the agencies of the Bank of Morocco, and on specified terms. 336 Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certificates and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce; they must be countersigned by the Exchange Office. Import commitments for liberalized goods are signed by the importer h imse l f; they do not require the v isa of the Exchange Off ice un less the country of origin of the goods is not the country of shipment, or the goods are bought on a c . i . f. basis. A part of the port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange controls. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as fo l lows: ( 1) the paymen ts agreement group, comprising countries w i th which Morocco maintains b i la teral paymen ts agreements;3 and (2) all other coun- tries, the "area of conver t ib i l i ty ." Certain noncommercial settlements with Algeria are made in d i rhams or Algerian dinars through special accounts at the two central banks; all settlements with Tun is ia are made through accounts denominated in convertible d i rhams or Tun is ian convertible dinars, and all settlements w i th Mau r i tan ia are made through ac- coun ts denom ina ted in convertible dirhams or convert- ible Mau r i tan ian ougu iya s. Settlements w i th the pay- ments agreement group are made through the payments agreement accoun ts. Imports originating in countries in the area of conve r t ib i l i ty may be paid for only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco. Other settlements w i th countries in the area of conver t ib i l i ty may be made only in convertible curren- cies negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accoun ts in Convertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The var ious types of nonresident accounts are as fo l lows: 1. Foreign Currency Accounts are held by physical or ju r id ical foreign na t iona l s, either resident or nonresident. These may be freely credited w i th book transfers from abroad, w i th checks, traveler's checks, or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency, except foreign bank notes, and with foreign currency drawn from the Bank of Morocco following general or special au tho r iza t ion by the Exchange Office. They may be freely debited for book transfers abroad to the account holder or to a th ird party foreign na t iona l, for the surrender of foreign currency to the Bank of Morocco, or for the payment of checks denominated in foreign currency. 3G u i n ea and M a l i; howeve r, these agreements are inoperative. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for physical or ju r id ical persons of foreign nationality, who may be resident or nonresident. These accounts may be credited free ly w i th authorized pay- ments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility and w i th dirhams obtained from the sale to the Bank of Morocco of convertible currencies, exc lud- ing bank notes.4 They may be debited free ly for payments in Morocco and for purchases from the Bank of Morocco of convertible currencies. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely. The interest rate payable on these deposits may not exceed 10 percent a year and is not subject to the withholding tax of 10 percent on interest earnings. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar ins t i tu- tions) of the countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 3); they are used only for settlements w i th these countries, inc lud ing settlements for imports and exports. 4. Capital Accounts, wh ich may be held by any nonresident, are credited w i th funds that may not be transferred abroad. These inc lude the proceeds from the sale on the Casablanca Stock Exchange of foreign or Moroccan securities w i thout retransfer guarantees and proceeds from the contractual or accelerated redemption of securities quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange and lacking retransfer guarantees. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries in the area of convertibility or the same coun try in the paymen ts agreement group are permitted free ly. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for purchases of specified govern- ment bonds and for personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate relatives du r ing v is i ts to Morocco (subject to a limit of DH 15,000 a year for each account), as well as the settlement of taxes in Morocco owed by the account holder. All other operations through Capital Accounts require ind iv idual approval. 5. Suspense Accounts are used for ho ld ing nonresi- dent funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due in Morocco, and, up to DH 15,000 a year, to pay the costs of the stay in Morocco of the account holder, the spouse, or other immediate relatives, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. 6. Three Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Central Bank of Algeria, the Central Bank of Mauritania, and the Central Bank of Tunisia. Only certain noncommercial transac- tions between Morocco and Algeria are settled through the account opened in the name of the Central Bank of Algeria. 4The Exchange Office m ay, howeve r, au tho r ize a fo re ign account to be credited in convertible d irhams w i th the d i rham proceeds from the surrender of foreign bank no tes, upon presen ta t ion of the or ig inal customs declaration. MOROCCO Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance w i th an annual General Import Program, divided into three categories and applicable to all countries. Goods in List A may be imported f ree ly. Goods in List B are restricted, in some cases by a global quota, or are subject to state trading; for a large number of List B items, no quotas are established, and imports are approved according to need, licenses u su a l ly being issued upon application (SB items). In pr inc ip le, the importation of goods in List C is not permitted; among the items on this list are certain motor veh ic les, certain precious metals, and gold jewe l ry. To import goods in List A, the importer signs an import comm i tment (engagement a" importation), which does not require adm in is tra t ive approval unless the goods are imported from a country other than that of origin or are purchased on a c . i . f. basis,5 but for goods in List B, an import certificate (autorisation d'importation or certificat d'importation} must be obtained. Cereals, sugar, tea, and fertilizers are imported by official agencies. For all imports the import title —import certificate or import comm i tmen t —must be domiciled (registered) w i th an authorized bank, wh ich may make payments upon submission of the required documents. Import certificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the foreign exchange is made available. Import commitments require this visa only when the country of origin and the country of shipment of the goods concerned d i f fer or when imports are contracted for on a c . i . f. basis. Special procedures are applicable to specified imports financed by foreign aid or loans. At the time the import transaction is domiciled with an authorized bank, a stamp du ty of DH 50 is levied on import transactions valued at DH 2,000 or more. In add i t ion, a noninterest-bearing advance import deposit equ iva lent reduced in September 1983 from 30 percent to 15 percent of the f .o .b. value of imports and refundable after three months is payable on all imports other than essential foods tuffs, certain animal feeds, fer t i l izers and seeds, books and newsprint, pharmaceu- tical products, capital goods; products imported under special customs regimes or by specified public entities w i th the approval of the Minister of Finance are exempted from the advance deposit requirement. Most imports from countries in the payments agree- ment group are made in accordance w i th quotas estab- lished in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under compensation transactions. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for most current invisibles require the approval of the Exchange Off ice, but in several instances the approval au thor i ty has been delegated to the banks. The au thor ized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial transac- 5C . i . f. impor ts of List A goods require prior exchange control approva l. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO tion covered by the relevant import or export documents. Earnings after tax on approved nonresident investments in Morocco are transferable to the investor's coun try of residence. The transfer of dividends on nonresident- owned shares of Moroccan companies hav ing their ma in office in Morocco requires the approval of the Exchange Office. Undistributed profits relating to the f inanc ial year 1968 or later remain transferable inde f in i te ly. Some payments are subject to limitations. A foreign employee may transfer to the employee's country of origin, subject to the in i t ial approval of the Exchange Office, 50 percent of his mon th ly wages or salary if the spouse does not reside in Morocco, or 30 percent if the employee is single or his family lives in Morocco; teachers attached to the M in is try of National Education are allowed an additional transfer of 35 percent for 30 days' leave taken abroad, of 70 percent for a 60 days' leave, and of 105 percent for 70 days' leave. For the medical or paramedical professions, the assessment of transferable amounts (30 percent or 50 percent, accord- ing to whe ther the spouse lives in Morocco) is based on taxable income m inus applicable du t ies and taxes. The same applies to other liberal professions as well as to persons engaged in indu s t ry, trade, agr icu l ture, and crafts, except that the monthly transferable amount may not exceed DH 2,000. For retired persons the calculation of the transferable amount (30 percent or 50 percent) is based on net pensions. An allocation of foreign exchange equ iva lent to DH 100 a person a year is granted to residents of any nationality for travel abroad, provided that they do not make periodic transfers abroad. There is a special allocation for pilgrimages. Residents of foreign nationality may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 2,500 a year for each passport by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange (other than bank notes) from their own foreign assets not subject to surrender requ iremen ts. A special tax of DH 500 a person is levied on Moroccan nationals traveling abroad, w i th the exception of p i lgr ims, s tuden ts, emigrant workers, and those traveling on official bus iness. For business travel a standard allowance of DH 500 a day is granted for executives and DH 350 a day for other staff members and employees, up to DH 5,000 a person a trip and w i th in an annual ceiling fixed ind iv idua l ly by the Exchange Office; exporters and professional members of the tourist industry may obtain up to DH 750 a person a day, up to DH 10,000 a trip, w i th in a ceiling of 3 percent of the foreign exchange repatriated du r ing the preceding calendar year. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. Moroccan students pursu ing higher studies at the first and second level abroad who do not hold scholarships may obtain mon th ly allocations of foreign exchange up to a maximum of DH 1,600, and doctoral students who do not hold scholarships may obtain up to DH 1,800. There is also a quarterly allocation of DH 1,750 as a supplement for scholarship students. Students are granted an annual installation allowance fixed at 338 DH 3,000. The export of Moroccan bank notes is proh ib i ted. Workers leaving Morocco to work abroad for the f irst t ime may be granted DH 2,000 in foreign bank notes upon presentation of an employment contract. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports may be made free ly, although export licenses are required for a few items. All fru i ts, fresh vegetables, canned goods, raw cotton, and cotton by- products may be exported on ly by a state-trading agency, the Office of Marke t ing and Export (Office de Commer- cialisation et d'Exportation —OCE), wh ich is also in charge of w ine exports. All exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange proceeds. The surrender to the exporter's bankmu st take place w i th in one month from the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the ma tur i ty date fixed in the commercial contract; in principle, this date must not be set more than 90 days after the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the exporter's bank receives the advice of credit in foreign currency from abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immed ia te ly to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds from Invisibles Res iden ts of Moroccan na t iona l i ty and Moroccan companies mu st repatriate exchange receipts accruing from all the ir noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from current transac t ions. Moroccans working abroad must surrender such currencies w i th in one month of re-entry, but are perm i t ted, when leaving aga in, to repurchase 15 percent of the amount surrendered. A special pre- m ium, called the "fidelity premium," is paid by the banks on remittances by Moroccans working in France; it is at a f ixed rate of 5 percent of the local currency value of the rem i t tances. The importation of Moroccan bank notes is proh ib i ted. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in foreign bank notes and traveler's checks; foreign currency imported in excess of the equivalent of DH 5,000 m u s t, however, be declared to the customs authorities. Resident travelers also may bring in foreign bank notes in any amoun t, but these must be surrendered w i th in 30 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan na t iona l i ty, as well as compa- nies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250 and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Remittance of the assets of emigrants and transfers in the form of g if ts are not normally approved, nor is investment by private individuals in foreign securities or real estate. Exchange allocations for the transfer of inheritances are limited to DH 35,000 a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution beneficiary. Permissible transfers of assets by resident foreigners on f inal departure vary w i th the length of s tay, from DH 10,000 a year for a stay of up to 9 years, DH 150,000 for a stay of 10 to 14 years, DH 250,000 for 15 to 24 years of s tay, and DH 350,000 when the period of residence exceeds 24 years. Also for departing resident foreigners, capital accounts w i th a balance on December 31, 1980 of not more than DH 20,000 are fu l ly transferable, and suspense accounts w i th a balance on February 6, 1981 not exceeding DH 10,000 are fu l ly transferable, provided that the bank fu rn ished the Ex- change Office with supporting information on the ac- counts by June 30, 1981. A new industrial investment code, wh ich came in to force in February 1983, provides for fu ll foreign own- ership of Moroccan companies, and an easing of repatri- ation of capital; it also grants fiscal and other incen t ives for foreign inves tmen t. In add i t ion, an inves tment code introduced for the tourist sector in Augu st 1983 offers tax and other incentives to domestic and fore ign inves- tors on most arrears in the tourist sector; it also provides for fu ll repatriation of tourist-related profits after t ax, without any restraint on timing. Operations through Capital Accounts that may be effected w i th approval include purchases on the Casa- blanca Stock Exchange of Moroccan and non-Moroccan securities; purchases of Moroccan securities not quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange or participation in a Moroccan firm; subscriptions to either; inves tmen ts of any k ind, including purchases of businesses or office buildings; lending to residents; payment of local ex- penses in excess of DH 15,000 du r ing the account holder's stay in Morocco; any such paymen ts to ben- eficiaries other than the holder of the account or a close relative; any such payments from an account he ld by a foreign juridical person; gifts to social, cu l tura l, or religious institutions; subscriptions to cap i tal increases of Moroccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca Stock Exchange; subscriptions at the t ime of issue to long-term or short-term fixed yield securities issued by a Moroccan pub l ic en t i ty; custody charges and commissions on securities; and payment of the cost of maintenance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Subject to approva l, Capital Accounts may also be debited for investments in Morocco, w i th in the framework of the 1973 Inves tment Code, provided that the amounts debited do not exceed 50 percent of the investment undertaken by the nonresi- dent and 25 percent of the company's total cap i ta l. Certain government bonds acquired w i th funds from Capital Accounts are freely negotiable between nonresi- dents. These are 5.5 percent, seven-year bonds and 6 percent, five-year bonds on wh ich interest and redemp- tion proceeds are transferable. All other transactions in securities invo lv ing nonresident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Banks are permitted to engage in short-term borrowing abroad; they may accept convertible currency funds from nonres- idents for credit to Special Deposit Accoun ts, provided MOROCCO that these funds are reinvested abroad in the same currency and for the same ma tu r i ty period. The rate of interest paid by banks on these deposits may not exceed the rate received by them on the ir corresponding p lacemen ts. Gold Commemorative gold coins w i th a face va lue of DH 250 and DH 500 have been issued and are legal tender. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for num i sm a t ic or inves tment p u r- poses. Ten d ifferent types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca Stock Exchange, wh ich does no t, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to au tho r iza t ion by the Directorate of Customs and Ind irect Taxes. Each year the M in is t ry of Finance f ixes a quota for the importation of gold ingo ts, wh ich is then allocated among jewe le rs and indus t r ial users of precious metals. Gold jewe lry is included in import List C. Exports of gold are p roh ib i ted. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments January 4. The general import program for 1983 was announced, i n v o l v i ng import l ibe ra l iza t ion in the form of a sh i ft of specified products from the licensing list (List B) to the l ist of f ree ly importable items (List A). February 21. Custom du t ies on an imal sk ins were suspended for six mon ths (Decree No. 1983/85). March 9. All goods fo rme r ly on List A ( i . e ., those not requ i r ing import licenses) were transferred to List B ( l icens ing l is t ), but goods shipped before March 10, 1983 were exempted from the change (Exchange Office Circular No. 1420). March 28. Import bans were l i f ted for certain spare parts, books, newspr in t, products for use by the phar- maceu t ical indus t ry (Exchange Off ice Circular No. 1421). May 2. An advance import deposit requ irement was in t roduced, equ iva lent to 25 percent of the f . o . b. value of imports, to be held on a noninterest-bearing basis for three mon ths. Imports of essential foods tu f fs, certain an imal feeds, fer t i l izers and seeds, books and newspr in t, pha rmaceu t ical products, capital goods, and products imported under special customs regimes or by certain pub l ic en t i t ies w i th the approval of the M in is ter of Finance were exempted from the requirement (De- cree No. 2/831 367 or Exchange Office Circular No. 1424). In add i t ion a number of import items were transferred from List B to List A (Exchange Office C ircu lar No. 1424). June 14. Add i t ional import items were transferred from List B to List A, b r ing ing the annual va lue of items on the latter l ist to about 17 percent of the c . i . f. value of imports (Exchange Off ice C ircu lar No. 1425). August 4. More import items were transferred from List B to List A, b r ing ing the annu al va lue of items on the latter list to about 32 percent of the c . i . f. value of imports (Exchange Office C ircu lar No. 1430). 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO August 5. Imports by export-oriented enterprises were exempted from the advance import deposit requirement (Exchange Office Circular No. 1431). September 6. Additional import items were trans- ferred from List B to List A (Exchange Office Circular No. 1432). September 30. The prior import deposit requirement was reduced from 25 percent to 15 percent of the f .o .b. value of imports (Exchange Office C ircu lar No. 1433). Payments for Invisibles August 1. A special tax of DH 500 a person was levied on Moroccan nationals traveling abroad, w i th the exception of pilgrims, students, emigrant workers, and those traveling on official business. Capital January 17. A new industrial inves tment code was signed into law, providing for f u ll foreign ownership of Moroccan companies, and an easing of repatriation of capital. In addition, the law introduced fiscal and other incentives for foreign investment. June 3. A new inves tment code for the tourist industry was adopted. Nonresident Accounts April 22. The max imum permissible interest rates on demand or time deposits in convertible dirham were raised to 10 percent a year (Exchange Office Circular No. 1422). July 8. The ceiling on the payment of personal expenses in Morocco by holders of Suspense or Capital Accounts was raised to DH 15,000 (Exchange Office Circular No. 1426). 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nepal is the Nepalese Rupee, which is pegged to a trade-weighted basket of currencies. On December 31, 1983 the official buy ing and selling rates were NRs 15.10 and NRs 15.30, respectively, per US$1. Buying and selling rates are quoted daily for other currencies,1 with quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. Buying rates only are quoted for Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Italian lire, and Swedish kroner, based on buying rates for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. Residents may freely purchase Indian rupees from Nepalese banks, and they may hold any amount of Indian notes and coin, but the Indian rupee is not legal tender. Administration of Control Permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for all payments in convertible currency except for import payments and certain other specified payments. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce and Supply. All exchange trans- actions with countries other than India must be settled through authorized dealers, that is, the Nepal Bank Ltd. and the Rastriya Banijya Bank which has 313 branches. Within Nepal there are 145 additional authorized dealers licensed to purchase foreign currencies; any sale of such currencies other than Indian rupees is subject to the prior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing payments to countries with which no payments agreement is in force,2 and these may be made in foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Payments to, and receipts from, other member countries of the Asian Clearing Union (ACU) except India (Bangladesh, Burma, Islamic Republic of Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, natural gas, their products, and government transactions) should be effected through the ACU. Payments for imports from India normally are settled in Indian rupees, but the Nepal Rastra Bank sometimes makes convertible currencies available for such imports on the recommendation of the Ministry of Finance. The proceeds of exports to India are obtained in Indian rupees, while proceeds from other countries must be received in any of the quoted convertible currencies (see footnote 1). Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Indian rupee, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Singapore dollars, and Asian Monetary Units (AMUs). 2Nepal has a bilateral payments agreement with Poland; payments for transactions under the agreement must be made through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts The Nepal Rastra Bank permits nonresidents to open "convertible rupee accounts" with Nepalese banks; bal- ances on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Accounts in Indian currency may be opened only under special arrangements. Foreign currencies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepalese rupees and deposited with a Nepalese bank, may be reconverted for transfer out of the country, subject to prior permission of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports from India and imports of certain commodi- ties (cement, petroleum products, corrugated sheets, iron products, copper, brass, and other nonferrous metals, industrial machinery and spare parts, fertilizer, and limited amounts of personal effects) from countries other than India do not require import licenses. All other imports of goods require import licenses. Imports of vegetable oil, margarine, animal fat, woolen carpets, arms and ammun i t ion, explosives, chemicals to be used for explosives, and wireless transmitters require special permission of the Government. Imports of beef are banned as are imports of washing soap (except from India) and detergent powder. Under the Trade and Transit Treaties, Nepal and India have agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Indian goods; Indian goods may, in principle, be imported freely (although some are subject to a permit system in order to prevent their re-exportation and certain others are subject to export ceilings in India); reimbursement of tax is made by the Government of India to the Govern- ment of Nepal on direct imports from Indian manufactur- ers of commodities subject to excise duty in India. Imports of certain commodities from countries other than India (e .g ., stainless steel, wrist watches, synthetic yarn, radios, pocket calculators, video sets, photographic equipment, and other specified goods) are subject to quantitative restrictions. Nepalese citizens returning from abroad are allowed to import without license personal effects valued from NRs 3,000 to NRs 13,000 once a year, depending on the duration of their stay abroad. Customs duty and sales tax are charged on amounts in excess of the exemption limit. The provision also exempts children less than 16 years from customs du ty on garments worth about US$200 brought in for private use. Similarly, Nepalese citizens can bring in one set of gold or silver or jewel-studded ornaments worth NRs 8,000 a year. They are required to show authorized foreign exchange sources for all the goods brought in by them. All import settlements through the banking system must be on a letter of credit basis; only imports from India may be settled outside the 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL banking system. The opening of import letters of credit is subject to an officially imposed margin deposit requirement ranging from 30 percent to 100 percent of import value. Certain imports from all sources are subject to import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Indian rupees. For travel to countries other than India for medical treatment, foreign exchange is allowed as recommended by a panel of doctors; students studying at their own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$2,160 a year for board and lodging, while payments for tuition fees are allowed as required. Foreign exchange is made available for certain business trips but is restricted for tourist travel abroad. Payments for other invisibles depend on the essentiality of the transaction and the availability of foreign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currencies may be taken out freely to India but only by Nepalese and Indian nationals; the export of these currencies to countries other than India is prohibited. Foreign bank notes, other than Indian bank notes, may not be taken out by residents without permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign bank notes they brought in; however, nonresi- dents, other than Indian nationals, may not take out Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of items having archaeological and religious importance, and other exports including old coin, gold and silver, coin and jewelry made of these metals, wild animals, musk and musk deer, snake and lizard skins, narcotics, explosive materials, chemicals for ammu- nition, raw skin and wool, Coca-Cola, logs and sawn wood, and other specified items are prohibited. The re- export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not permitted, and re-export to any destination of goods imported from India is prohibited. With specified exceptions, goods of Nepalese origin may be exported freely to India. All exports to other destinations, except handicrafts, woolen goods other than carpets, hessians, and jute bags, dry ginger, cardamom, cheese, catechu, rice bran cake, medicinal herbs, and processed skins require export licenses. The exchange proceeds from exports, except Indian rupees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or to an authorized bank within six months of the date when the goods crossed the customs frontier. Unit values are defined on an f .o .b. Nepal basis. Foreign or Nepalese tourists may take out as sou- venirs, without permission, goods not exceeding NRs 15,000 in value, which are not otherwise restricted. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Indian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepalese and 342 Indian currency may be brought in from India only, and by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the import of these currencies from countries other than India is prohibited. When extending their visas, tourists are required to produce evidence that they have converted a m in imum of US$5 at the official rate of exchange for each day's stay. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian bank notes. Other foreign bank notes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents, but residents and Indian nationals must declare any foreign bank notes they bring in. Capital No conditions are specified concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital remit- tances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries, except invest- ment specifically exempted by government notice; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any banking or f inanc ial institution incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. Foreign investors who have obtained an investment guarantee are eligible for outward remittances in respect of the following items: all or part of the sales proceeds of investment, dividends, interest or principal repayment, amounts arising from the transfer of technology, and compensations on acquired assets. In cases of proceeds of investment sales and d iv idends, remittances may be subject to installments fixed by the Government. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports of gold require a license and are subject to an import duty of NRs 6.65 a troy ounce; such imports are not normally allowed. Exports of gold may be made only by the monetary authorities and require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Domestic dealings in gold do not require a license but are subject to a sales tax of 12 percent. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement June 1. In place of the previous arrangement of simultaneously pegging the rupee to the U.S. dollar and the Indian rupee, Nepal introduced an exchange arrangement based on a trade-weighted basket of currencies. August 17. A forward exchange cover facility was established primarily with the objective of safeguarding the interest of exports. Coverage was limited for the time being to the most widely traded foreign currency, the U .S. dollar. Imports and Import Payments May 27. The commercial banks were instructed to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution require a margin deposit of 100 percent against import letters of credit. June 10. Issuance of import licences to private im- porters for commercial purposes was temporarily suspended. July 18. Changes were made in import regulations as follows: (a) import of fertilizers, cement, petrol, diesel, bitumen, ju te batching oil, raw wool, cotton, and industrial machineries was placed under quantitative restriction and made subject to an import license fee and a levy of 1 percent of import license va lue, and (b) as a condition for obtaining an import license, payment by the importer of an import license fee together with a levy amounting to 25 percent of import license value for luxury items, 5-10 percent for semiluxurious items, and 1-5 percent for items of daily consumption. August 13. Authorization was granted for Nepalese citizens returning from abroad to import w i thout license and with specified exemptions of duties, personal effects valued from NRs 3,000 to NRs 13,000 once yearly, depending on the duration of stay abroad. Children under 16 years of age were also authorized to bring in specified personal effects, up to one half of the allowance for adults. September 20. The ban on imports of washing soap from India was lifted. October 27. The margin requirement on import letters of credit was reduced from 100 percent to a m in imum of 30 percent for specified items, including cement, iron rods, and corrugated sheets. November 11. Under the N ine Point Program for export promotion, the commercial banks were instructed to expand pre-export financing to recognized export houses, up to 80 percent of the domestic value of exportable goods, or a max imum of NRs 2.5 million; the applicable annual rate of interest on such loans was reduced from 14 percent to 8 percent for a max imum maturity of 45 days. Provision was also made for the commercial banks to refinance such loans w i th the Nepal Rastra Bank. NEPAL Exports and Export Proceeds March 22. The Treaty of Trade and Agreement to Control Unauthorized Trade between Nepal and India was extended to March 1988. Under the extended treaty, 10 more items ( inc lud ing sugar, lime, cattle, poultry feed, and leather goods) were permitted to be exported by Nepal to India free of du ty. A total of 35 industrial products of Nepal were also made eligible for conces- sional entry into Ind ia, inc lud ing 15 wh ich could be exported w i thout formalities. India also agreed to provide transshipment facilities for transit in the Gonda and Ka t ihar regions. In addition, the three-day free-time fac i l i ty for Nepali goods in Natayanpur Anata was extended to September 30, 1983. June 1. A cash incentive scheme was introduced for exports of leather and leather goods to countries other than India; under the scheme, exporters of these items would be eligible for payments of 10 percent, - 18 percent, and 20 percent of the f .o .b. value of exports of unprocessed, semiprocessed, and fu l ly processed leather and leather goods, respectively. November 1. A Nine Point Program for the promotion of exports to countries other than India was introduced, under wh ich the cash incentive scheme introduced in June for exports of leather goods was extended to all exports in the amount of 10 percent of the export value. In addition, industrial establishments would be permitted to retain 15 percent of the overseas export earnings for payment of imports of raw materials and capital goods, and customs duties on all overseas exports would be reduced to 1 percent, while a customs du ty and sales tax drawback scheme would be instituted for imported raw materials used in the production of exports. Pre-export finance and concessional export finance interest rates were also introduced, and Nepal Rastra Bank made a provision for refinancing commercial banks export lend- ing. In addition, the Nepal Industrial Development Corporation was to invest 10 percent of its lending in export-oriented industries. 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands is the Ne ther lands Guilder. The Netherlands participates w i th Be lg ium, Denmark, France, the Federal Repub l ic of Germany, Ireland, I ta ly, and Luxembourg in the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the European Monetary Sys- tem (EMS). In accordance w i th th is agreement, the Netherlands maintains the spot exchange rates between the Netherlands guilder and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 2.25 percent (in the case of the Italian lira, 6 percent) above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in European Currency Units (ECUs). The agreement implies that the Ne ther lands Bank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. On December 31, 1983 these rates were as follows: Specified Intervention Rates Per: Netherlands Guilders Upper l im it Lower limit 100 Belgian or Luxembourg francs 100 Danish kroner 100 deutsche mark 100 French francs 1 Irish pound 10,000 Italian lire 5.7535 31.7325 115.235 37.58 3.5600 19.1100 5.5005 30.3375 110.1675 35.925 3.4030 16.9500 The participants in the EMS do not ma in ta in exchange rates for other currencies w i th in fixed l im i t s. However, in order to ensure a proper func t ion ing of the system, they intervene in concert to smooth out f luc tua t ions in exchange rates, the intervention currencies being each other's and the U .S. dollar. The authorized banks quote buy ing and selling rates for 15 foreign currencies.1 On December 31, 1983 the authorized banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were f. 3.06235 and f. 3.06575, respec- tively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Authorized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible and inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward, against convertible currencies, inc lud ing de- posits in nonresident guilder accounts, and inconvertible currencies; they are free to deal w i th residents and nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period, nor is an underlying transaction required. Residents are free to conclude spot transactions w i th other residents, 'Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian do l lars, Dan ish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian l i r e, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Norwegian kroner, pounds s ter l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. 344 inc lud ing authorized banks, and they may conclude forward transactions with authorized banks for any period. The intermediation of authorized banks is not obligatory in those forward currency transactions in wh ich the guilder is not involved. Nonbank residents are free to hold foreign currency accounts in the Ne ther lands. The K ingdom of the Ne ther lands formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2 , 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Transactions w i th the Netherlands Antilles are subject to the same exchange controls as transactions with other countries. With regard to any third countries with which payments agreements might be in force, the Netherlands and the Netherlands Antilles w i l l, if so stipulated, constitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Netherlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Affa irs, Finance, Economic A f fa i r s, and Agriculture. Import and export licensing, including transit trade ,2 are handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate- General for Foreign Economic Relations. For their paymen ts to and receipts from nonresidents in the Ne ther lands, residents are generally required to use the intermediation of banks or other domestic institutions or persons authorized by the Netherlands Bank to handle these exchange transactions w i th in the scope of the regulations based on the External Financial Relations Act 1980 (see section on Capital, below). To facilitate the compilation of the balance of paymen ts, residents are required to indicate on reporting forms, for all payments to and receipts from nonresidents exceeding f. 5,000, the nature of the unde r ly ing transaction as well as the currency and amount paid or received. Separate regula- tions govern the reporting of settlements where no transfer of money is invo lved. Residents are free to open and maintain bank accounts abroad and to ma in ta in current accounts abroad for the purpose of settlements. The Netherlands Bank must be notified of such accounts, and entries in them are to be reported to the Bank in accordance with the related regulations. Prescription of Currency In effec t ing payments to nonresidents or collecting receipts from them, residents may make use of guilders or any foreign currency. Payments in any foreign 2The on ly t ran s it trade transactions s t i ll subject to specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution currency between residents may be made free ly. There are no bilateral payments agreements in force. Nonresi- dents are free to open and maintain nonresident accounts with authorized banks in the Netherlands in guilders or any foreign currency, and to effect payments to, or collect receipts from, residents. All current payments or receipts are freely permitted, as well as transfers of balances to and from other nonresident accounts. Some capital payments, however, are subject to license from the Netherlands Bank (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for imports originating in Hong Kong, Japan, and state-trading coun tr ies ,3 as well as for the importation of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly those of the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors. Except for imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in state-trading countries (see footnote 3), most imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restriction. Most imports from Eastern European countries are formally liberalized. Imports from non-EC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EC are subject to import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Payments for imports may be made f ree ly, provided that the method of payment conforms to the relative exchange control regulations. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Residents may take out any amount in foreign and domestic bank notes and coin or documents of value for travel purposes; these may be used for traveling expenses abroad, as well as for purchases for wh ich payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely. Nonresidents may export all unu t i l ized documents of value for travel purposes, as well as foreign and Netherlands bank notes and coin wh ich they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or by exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few com- modities, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agricultural products, iron and steel scrap and related products, and certain nonferrous metals. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of exports of commodities. The surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory. 3State-trading countries are defined for th is purpose as cons is t ing of Albania, Bulgaria, People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Repub l ic, Hunga ry, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, U . S . S . R ., and Viet Nam. NETHERLANDS Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts by residents from current invisibles. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands for travel purposes any amounts of foreign bank notes and documents of value; these may be used for traveling expenses in the Nether- lands, as well as for purchases for which payment in cash is customary in the trade concerned. Capital Exchange control in the Netherlands is based on the External Financial Relations Act 1980. This Act limits potential restriction to capital transactions, except when current paymen ts and capital transactions are inter- woven, as in payment intervals relating to trade transactions. Most external capital transactions are free. The main capital transactions of nonbank residents still subject to case-by-case review are long-term lending ( i .e ., with a ma tur i ty of at least two years) to nonresidents exceeding f. 10 million a year to the same nonresident. Direct inves tment in the form of capital participations (inward and outward) is free of license. Short-term lending (for less than two years) to nonresidents (whe ther affiliated companies or others) is free of license, as is longer-term lending, up to f. 10 mil- lion a calendar year to the same nonresident; larger amounts are normally permitted on application. Public issues on the domestic capital market on behalf of nonresidents are subject to the issues calendar, and if necessary limited by the Netherlands Bank, in accor- dance w i th the marke t's capacity to absorb issues. In the private placement sector of the capital market (the market for onderhandse leningen), where mainly institu- tional investors act as lenders, a queue system for nonresident borrowers is used as well, to ensure orderly market conditions. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam Stock Ex- change take place at official market exchange rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Placement w i th residents of unlisted foreign debentures denominated in guilders (such as foreign Euroguilder notes) is subject to license, bu t, u sua l ly, the license is automatically granted as part of the authorization for credit institutions to manage such a placement. Transactions in unlisted stocks are free of license. Nonresidents may have their securities, domes- tic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Nonresidents may freely purchase real estate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment, and resi- dents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Extension of payment and mortgage borrowing from nonresidents w i th in the framework of such transactions is free of license. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free. Emi- grants may export any amount in foreign and domestic 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS currency. They acquire nonresident status upon leav ing the Netherlands and may upon departure have rem i t ted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Nonresidents inheriting from estates in the Netherlands may have the proceeds transferred to them free ly. There are no restrictions on commercial bank s' spot external positions. They are, however, required to maintain a balanced total position in each foreign currency ( i .e ., spot plus forward position). In this context, the banks are required to report the ir spot position, as well as their forward position w i th residents and nonresidents, respectively, in each foreign currency at the end of each month; for deutsche mark, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U . S. dollars, the same data must also be reported at m id-mon th. Moreover, copies of all forward exchange contracts w i th nonresidents are forwarded to the Netherlands Bank. Authorized banks may freely extend foreign currency loans to nonresidents as well as short-term guilder loans ( i .e ., for less than two years); for longer-term guilder loans a license is required if they exceed f. 10 million a calendar year to the same nonresident (bank or nonbank ). The banks' freedom to accept deposits from nonresidents and to borrow abroad is unrestricted. All capital transfers by nonbank residents, whe ther free or permitted under license, must be notified to the Balance of Payments Department of the Ne the r lands Bank. This includes suppliers' credits granted or re- ceived for periods in excess of one year. Totals of security transactions must be reported periodically by securities brokers and authorized banks or, if transac- tions take place through a foreign bank accoun t, by the resident parties concerned. Gold The Netherlands Bank engages in gold transac t ions only w i th monetary authorities and international f inan- cial ins t i tu t ions. Neither the Bank nor any government agency imports or markets gold for indu s t r ial use. Authorized banks and nonbank residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coin, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad. Imports and exports of gold do not require exchange licenses or import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Except for transactions of the Ne ther lands Bank, transfers of gold in bars and other elementary forms are subject to a value-added tax of 4 percent, as are domestic sales of gold coin. All other gold transac- tions are taxed at 18 percent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing m inor quan t i t ies of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when originating in Hong Kong, Japan, or state-trading countries. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement March 21. The bilateral central rates between the Netherlands guilder and the currencies of the other participating countries in the European Monetary System 346 were rea l igned, resu l t ing in an appreciation of the central rate of the Ne ther lands gu i lder in terms of ECUs by 3.36 percent. Administration of Control July 1. Residents mak ing either capital or current account paymen ts below f. 5,000 to, or receiving such paymen ts f rom, nonresidents were exempted from f i l ing a balance of paymen ts reporting form w i th the Nether- lands Bank ind ica t ing the na ture of the under ly ing transac t ion. P rev iou s ly, all capital and current account transactions exceeding f. 3,000 were subject to the reporting requ iremen t. Concurren t ly, for purposes of a more accurate subcategorization of balance of payment f lows, the general reporting instructions were broadened to require that resident companies and ins t i tu t ions, irrespective of the ir legal fo rm, be registered with the Balance of Payments Department of the Netherlands B ank; th is applied to companies and ins t i tu t ions in which nonres iden ts were directly or ind irec t ly participating by means of shares or otherwise and wh ich had as their object, or made it largely their bus iness, to receive f inanc ial means from nonresidents and to pass on such means to nonresidents. Prior to Ju ly 1, 1983, the registration requ irement applied to companies formed in the Ne ther lands w i th the object or activity of receiving funds from abroad for transmission to another country, and wh ich were directly or ind irec t ly controlled by non res iden ts. Imports and Import Payments July I. In connection w i th the removal of the remain- ing restrictions on capital imports (see Capital, below), it was announced that residents would no longer require prior approval from the Ne ther lands Bank to delay import paymen ts for periods in excess of those that were customary for the particular transactions. Exports and Export Proceeds July 1. In connection w i th the l i f t i ng of controls on cap i tal impor ts, it was announced that it was no longer necessary for exporters to obtain prior approval from the Ne ther lands Bank to accept payment in advance of delivery in excess of the normal practice for the par t icu lar transac t ions. Capital July 7. The rema in ing restrictions on international capital movements were e l im ina ted, invo lv ing (a) the l i f t ing of restrictions on capital imports of a money market na ture ( i .e ., w i th a ma tur i ty of less than two years); (b) the removal of the need for a case-by-case review of (i) f inanc ial borrowing exceeding f. 500,000 a year by nonbank residents from nonresidents, and (ii) the issuance and sale by nonbank residents of domestic debentures (not listed on the Amsterdam Stock Ex- change) to nonresidents; and (c) the elimination of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution requirement to obtain permission for longer-term bor- rowing abroad for domestic use by resident enterprises. Q0M July 1. In connection w i th the removal of the remain- ing restrictions on capital imports, it was announced that the general permission under wh ich the domestic gold- working industry was allowed to borrow gold from nonresidents under contract of mu tuum was no longer necessary and therefore ceased to apply, NETHERLANDS 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES1 (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands Antilles is the Netherlands Antillean Guilder, wh ich is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at NA f. 1.7900 = US$1. The official buy ing rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1983 were NA f. 1.77 per US$1 for bank notes and NA f. 1.79 per US$1 for d ra f ts, checks, and transfers. The official selling rate was NA f. 1.81 per US$1. The Bank of Netherlands Antilles (the central bank) deals with commercial banks at NA f. 1.80 per US$1; it does not normally deal w i th the public. Official buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies2 are set daily on the basis of rates for the U .S. dollar abroad. There is an exchange tax3 of 1.30 percent on sales of foreign exchange.4 Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the central bank. Import licenses, where required, are issued by the Department of Economic Affa irs. The commer- cial banks are permitted by the central bank to provide foreign exchange for almost all current transactions without prior approval. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Netherlands Antillean guilders. Receipts may be ac- cepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands Antillean guilders. All payments made by residents to nonresidents, as well as all receipts through the autho- rized banks, must be reported to the central bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonresident accounts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents are permitted to hold nonresident accounts in Netherlands Antillean guilders only if the authorized bank concerned considers that they have certain interests in the Netherlands Antilles wh ich render such an account desirable; balances in such accounts may not exceed NA f. 10,000 w i thout central bank approval. Imports and Import Payments Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. The importation of certain products for wh ich there are locally produced substitutes is subject to quotas. Certain 'The Netherlands An t i l les is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of wh ich the Kingdom of the Netherlands has accepted the Fund 's Articles of Agreement. 2Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian l i re, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Suriname guilders, and Swiss francs. 3Purchases of foreign exchange by resident companies w i th nonresi- dent status for exchange control purposes are exempt from the exchange tax. 4A11 currencies other than the Ne ther lands An t i l l e an gu i lder are considered foreign currencies. 348 commodities are subject to import surcharges in Aruba, Bonaire, and Curasao. Payments for Invisibles For most types of current invisibles remittances may be made freely through the authorized banks. A license is required for certain special transactions; such licenses are granted when no capital transfer is involved. Nonres- idents may take with them on departure any foreign currency which they brought in on arrival. The export of Netherlands Antilles bank notes is limited to NA f. 200 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in w i th them any amount of checks, traveler's checks, or bank notes denominated in foreign currency. Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles re- quires a license, which is normally granted. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control. Investment by residents in real estate situated abroad is normally permitted. Investment in officially listed foreign securities is generally permitted provided the securities are registered abroad in the name of an authorized bank. Institutional investors are subject to special supervision with respect to foreign investments. Authorized banks' overall position w i th relation to nonresidents is subject to limits set by the central bank, and mus t, in any event, be positive. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles. Authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coin among themselves and with other residents. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the central bank; such licenses are not normally granted. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement February 21. The Venezuelan bolivar was removed from the list of foreign currencies, regularly quoted by the central bank. September 6. The tax on sales of foreign exchange was raised from 0.8 percent to 1.3 percent. Imports and Import Payments August 13. Import quotas were introduced on 15 items for which there were locally produced substitutes, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution including beer, soap, pa in t, and mattresses: monthly imports of such products could not exceed their average monthly level in 1982 by more than 15 percent. November 16. Import duties on items considered as luxury consumer durables, such as video equipment, radios, cars, and yachts, were increased from 22 percent to 40 percent. November 29. Import duties were abolished on a range of items classified as tourist goods, including wristwatches and bands, jewelry, articles of porcelain and crystal, lenses, 'and stainless steel utensils. NETHERLANDS ANTILLES 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand Dollar. Exchange rates are computed on the basis of the fixed relationship between the New Zealand dollar and a basket of currencies representing New Zealand's main trading partners. The weights of the currencies in the basket are established in accordance with their propor- tionate share of New Zealand's total current overseas receipts and payments; the weights are adjusted quar- terly. The exchange rate of the New Zealand dollar in terms of the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, varies during each trading day on the basis of the average weighted variations in quotations for the U .S. dollar in relation to the other currencies included in the basket. The trading banks and authorized foreign exchange dealers are free to move exchange rate quotations in response to market conditions throughout each business day. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The trading banks and authorized dealers are per- mitted to conclude w i th their customers forward ex- change contracts to buy or sell foreign currencies in exchange for New Zealand dollars, irrespective of the purpose for which the funds are required or the source from which they are obtained, provided that any outward remittance made in the form of a forward contract also complies with exchange control regulations. These for- ward contracts may be either for a fixed term or for optional delivery dates. The Reserve Bank does not maintain margins in respect of forward exchange transactions. Authorized foreign exchange dealers are free to set their own rates of forward transactions with their customers. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. The Reserve Bank has given discretion- ary authority to the trading banks and other authorized foreign exchange dealers to approve applications for certain remittances of funds overseas. The Overseas Investment Commission administers the regulations gov- erning foreign direct investment in New Zealand. Export and import licensing is the responsibility of the Customs Department and the Department of Trade and Indus t ry, respectively. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may be made or received in any foreign currency. * Payment to and from New Zealand currency accounts held with banks in New Zealand by banks not 'Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. 350 domiciled in New Zealand is also an acceptable form of payment. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank supervises certain specified ac- counts in New Zealand of residents of other countries ("controlled accounts"). The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions w i th other countries, but they may only be funded from overseas or by amounts which would otherwise be remittable from New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through an Import Licensing Schedule. The import categories included in the schedule are as follows: Category "E" (exempt) covers virtually all primary products (other than whea t), most raw materials and components (e .g ., base chemicals and fertilizers) and machinery of a type not produced in New Zealand, and some consumer goods. Goods in this category are exempt from licensing, as are a small range of specified goods of Australian or ig in ,2 and there are a limited number of general exemptions. W i th the excep- tion of a few specified products, imports from the Pacific islands3 under the South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (SPARTECA) are free of licensing and duty requirements. On a value basis, about 75 percent of all private imports are exempt from licensing. The "Basic" category comprises items for which licenses are granted by reference to either the amount of licenses issued or the actual value of imports in a previous licensing period. Goods covered by this category are generally consumer goods and a range of materials for use in manufac ture. Licenses for imports under this category have been issued in general where there is local manufacture to provide some opportunity for import competition. The "C" category covers a wide range of commodities, inc lud ing most manufactures, for example, machinery and appliances, ships, and motor vehicles. Category "C" licenses are granted on an individual basis and on such criteria as need, availability of domestic alternatives, and price, and are not auto- matically reissued in future licensing periods. The overall administration of the system has been eased over the recent past, w i th greater availability of licenses for inpu ts to export-oriented indus try, to encour- age rationalization of production and greater cost con- ta inment w i th in industry generally. 2The exemption of the specified Aus t ra l ian goods from licensing is granted under the terms of the Australia-New Zealand Closer Eco- nom ic Re la t ions and Trade (ANZCERT) Agreement that came in to force on Janua ry 1, 1983. 3The is lands under th is arrangement are those cons t i tu t ing the South Pacific Forum, (in add i t ion to Australia and New Zealand), Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nau ru, N iue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Is lands, Tonga, Tuv a lu, V anu a tu, and Western Samoa. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution An increasing number of import licenses are being issued under a tender system covering a wide range of goods. Tendering is intended to provide a means of moving away from the historical basis of license alloca- tion, and has been adopted for allocating additional licenses under a number of industry development plans and some licenses under the ANZCERT Agreement. Most licenses issued may be used to import from any source; the main exceptions to this are licenses under special schemes and agreements such as the developing coun- tries' handicraft scheme, the special trade license scheme, and the ANZCERT Agreement. All licenses issued may be used for imports from any source. A degree of f lex ib i l i ty in the application of the Import Licensing Schedule is achieved through the use of Group Schemes (for Industry and In terchangeab i l i ty Groups) that enable importers to transfer ind iv idual entitlements to a composite license instead of holding licenses for separate items, and to import, up to the total amount, any item or combination of items in the group. "No-remittance licenses" for goods controlled under the Import Licensing Schedule may be issued in special circumstances, v iz ., for advertising material supplied free of charge; g if ts, passengers' baggage, replacement of fau l ty or damaged goods; trade samples supplied free of charge; and temporary imports. Authorized foreign exchange dealers have the power to make foreign exchange available for payments in respect of all licensed imports and all imports that do not require a license. Payments for Invisibles The trading banks and other authorized foreign ex- change dealers are permitted to sell exchange for overseas payments w i th in prescribed l im i ts for most categories of inv is ib les, subject in appropriate cases, to the submission of supporting documents. Payments in excess of these l im i ts, and for categories not included in the commercial banks' permitted list, require the specific approval of the Reserve Bank. Banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange for genu ine foreign travel purposes without prior reference to the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 1,000 a person a month or part thereof, w i th a max imum of $NZ 4,000 a person in any 12-month period. Requests for amounts in excess of $NZ 1,000 a month or for a total of more than $NZ 4,000 in any 12- month period must be referred to the Reserve Bank. Larger amounts of exchange for any type of travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank, wh ich meets all reasonable requests for genu ine travel pur- poses. In addition to the above, banks in New Zealand and their branches or agents in London and Australia may sell foreign currencies, w i thout l im it as to amoun t, to New Zealand travelers against privately held foreign fund s. An international departure tax of $NZ 25 a person aged 12 and over ($NZ 5 for children over 2 but under 12) is payable on all tickets obtained in New Zealand for departure from New Zealand, except for certain promo- NEW ZEALAND tional, cultural, or educational travel. This tax is ad- ministered by the Customs Department. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is approved, subject to formal au then t ica t ion. Contractual obligations also are normally approved, but each remittance requires approval, and new comm i tmen ts, such as royalty agreements w i th overseas licensors or overseas borrowing, require the prior consent of the Reserve Bank and, for corporate borrowing, of the Overseas Investment Commission. Remittances abroad on account of maintenance or g if ts by recognized New Zealand religious and charitable organizations or individuals operating as members of such an organization are not subject to l im i ta t ion. Remittances for religious and charitable purposes, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve Bank, subject to formal au then t ica t ion. Any resident may freely make personal remittances up to a total of $NZ 100 a year to any destination overseas for any purpose except gamb l ing or bu i ld ing up assets in the rem i t ter's name. Travelers may take w i th them up to $NZ 100 in New Zealand currency, in any denomination of notes or coin. Exports and Export Proceeds To ensure that export earnings are returned through the bank ing system, an export license from the Customs Department is required before any goods can be exported from New Zealand. General export licenses, valid for five years, are issued to regular exporters. Particular export licenses, as required, are issued to new exporters or to those who do not export on a regular basis. Unless prior consent is obtained, payments for exports must be received w i t h in six months from the date of shipment. Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific requirements have been met and an export permit has been issued. Encouragement is extended by the Government aimed at raising the level of exports from New Zealand, particularly nontraditional exports. Three new export incen t ive schemes were introduced on April 1, 1980 to replace ex is t ing incen t ives: (1) the Export Performance Taxation Incentive (EPTI), an incentive related to the sale of goods and services ( inc lud ing tour ism) and based on a f i rm 's net foreign exchange earnings; (2) the Export Market Development Taxation Incentive (EMDTI), de- signed to encourage the development of export mar- kets; and (3) the Export Programme Suspensory Loan Scheme, an alternative to the EMDTI and designed to encourage f irms to undertake more thorough and coor- dinated marke t ing programs than is the case under the EMDTI. A bilateral trade agreement w i th Australia provides for the phased elimination between 1985 and 1987 of all performance-based export incentive schemes. To facilitate export competitiveness, import licenses can be issued to manu fac tu r ing exporters for materials and components where it is established that equ iva lent goods available from domestic sources have price or other characteristics that jeopardize export performance. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Bonus import licenses are available to manu fac- turers who have exported manufactured goods in which licensed imported raw materials and components have been used. Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents ( inc lud ing corporate bodies o rd ina r i ly resident in New Zealand) is paid in the form of foreign assets,4 the foreign currency proceeds must be sold to the New Zealand banking system; interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio investment are excluded from this surrender requ iremen t. If the remuneration is in a form other than a foreign currency or a balance w i th an overseas bank, it must be converted into foreign cur- rency and then surrendered. The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles such as interest and dividends is permitted, and the foreign currency pro- ceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may bring into the country un l im i ted amoun ts of foreign and domestic bank notes and co in. Capital With the exception of capital issues outside New Zealand and overseas borrowings, consents are not required in respect of capital receipts. Consent for overseas borrowing is usually granted except for general fund ing by f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions and short-term work ing capital. To be eligible for repatriation, capital must have been transferred to New Zealand through normal bank- ing channels or in some other way approved by the authorities, for example, as imports of plant or ma- ch inery. Capital so transferred, inc lud ing capital gains and capitalized profits, may be repatriated, after the formal approval of the Reserve Bank has been ob ta ined. In the case of overseas borrowing, repaymen ts are not normally permitted un t il the expiry of the term for wh ich the funds were or ig ina l ly borrowed. All overseas en t i- ties seeking to establish themselves in New Zealand must obtain the approval of the Overseas Inves tment Commission. Capital issues outside New Zealand by companies incorporated in New Zealand require the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission; overseas borrowing by such companies also requires prior approval. New Zealand subsidiaries and branches of overseas companies must obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission if they wish to borrow in excess of $NZ 300,000 in New Zealand, whe ther for long-term 4The k inds of remuneration that are invo lved are ( 1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the c red i t ing of any sum in any account at any bank or w i th any person; (3) the acqu i s i t ion or prov is ion of any securities, or any real or personal property, or of any right thereto or interest therein (whe ther actual or con t ingen t ); and (4) any b e n e f i t, whe ther by way of do ing work or the performance of services, or otherwise, under any contract agreement, scheme, or transac t ion of any k ind (whe ther or not it is enforceable or in tended to be en fo rceab le by legal proceedings). 352 or short-term f inance. Local borrowing by companies that are 50 percent or more overseas-owned is normally restricted to 15 percent of the turnover in the previous f inanc ial year, w i th a special allowance in respect of any export turnover. Such companies may borrow locally, in add i t ion, an amount in proportion to the level of their borrowings from overseas, based on the ratio of New Zealand and overseas equ i ty holdings. Nonresident persons or companies w i sh ing to make a direct invest- ment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission in respect of any proposed offer for such shares whenever the investment would confer on the offerer the beneficial en t i t lement to 25 percent or more of any class of shares, or enable the offerer to exercise 25 percent or more of the voting power at any general meeting. Em igran ts may transfer abroad the ir entire assets upon their departure from New Zealand. Applications for the rem i t tance abroad of legacies from the estate of a New Zealand resident are norma l ly approved in f u l l. The au tho r i t ies do not no rma l ly make exchange ava i lab le to pr iva te persons or f irms for the purchase of overseas securities for portfolio investment. New Zea- land Government stock on the London register purchased overseas by New Zealand residents after September 5, 1969 may not be transferred from the Un i ted Kingdom to the New Zealand register. A New Zealand resident owning freely held overseas securities may retain them abroad or he may sell them to a nonresident for any foreign cu r rency, wh i ch may be reinvested in other overseas secur i t ies, may be remitted to New Zealand th rough the b a n k i ng sys tem, or may be retained at the disposal of the New Zealand resident. With limited exceptions, sales of overseas securities by one New Zealand resident to another may be made only in exchange for other overseas secur i t ies or for any over- seas cu r rency. The on ly overseas securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for New Zealand currency are those that were registered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for wh ich scrip or other documents of title were issued; the purchaser mu st lodge the share scrip w i th the Reserve Bank. These securities may also be sold for any overseas cu r rency, in wh i ch case the proceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zealand through the bank ing system or be reinvested in other overseas securities w i t h in three mon ths. Gold Residents may hold and acqu ire gold coin in New Zealand w i thout restriction. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than gold coin and jewelry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Customs Department; such licenses are not no rma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on beha lf of the monetary authorities and indus tr ial users. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are licensed res tr ic t!ve ly. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement March 8. The New Zealand dollar was devalued by 6 percent against its weighted basket of currencies. The middle rate in terms of the U .S. dollar was consequently changed to US$0.655 = $NZ1, representing a deprecia- tion of 8.3 percent from the middle rate of the previous day. August 8. The practice of keeping the exchange rate of the New Zealand dollar against the U .S. dollar fixed through the day was discontinued, and the rate was allowed to move during each trading day, though still on the basis of weighted average movements of the U .S. dollar relative to the currencies of New Zealand's other major trading partners. August 8. The special concessional forward fac i l i ty to wool buyers was w i thdrawn. August 26. The Reserve Bank formally w i thd rew from the forward market by ceasing to quote forward rates in its dealings w i th the banks. NEW ZEALAND September 1. Seven of n ine authorized foreign ex- change dealers commenced operations in New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments January 1. A closer economic relations agreement w i th Aus tra l ia came into e f fec t, providing for the e l im ina t ion of tariffs of 5 percent or less, a phased reduction of v i r tua l ly all other ta r i f fs, and the removal of all quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports from New Zea- land by 1995. March 30. It was announced that the issuance of basic import licenses dur ing the year beginning Ju ly 1, 1983 would be kept at the same aggregate value level as in the preceding year. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. A closer economic relations agreement w i th Aus tra l ia came into effec t, providing for the phased e l im ina t ion of all performance-based export incentives in the two countries by 1987. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position on December J 7, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nicaragua is the N icaraguan Cor- doba. Nicaragua ma in ta ins a mu l t ip le exchange rate system. Certain current and capital receipts must be surrendered to the Central Bank or its authorized agents at the official exchange rate; for specified current and capital payments and transfers, the Central Bank, or its authorized agents, sells foreign exchange at the off ic ial rate. Most other permitted foreign exchange transactions take place at an officially regulated exchange rate called the parallel rate. Only authorized banks may purchase foreign exchange at the parallel rate; dealings outside the banking system are prohibited. The Central Bank may impose limits on transactions at the parallel rate, as we ll as on the spread between bid and offer rates. Specified but varying proportions of the proceeds from certain merchandise exports, including sugar, beef, and cotton, may be surrendered in return for nonnegotiable "certifi- cates of foreign exchange ava i lab i l i ty ." The certificates may be used either for the import requ iremen ts of the producer of the exports, or for encashment at the parallel exchange rate. The foreign exchange released by any conversion of exchange certificates into cordobas may be used by the f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions for merchand ise im- ports not eligible for exchange at the off ic ial rate. On December 31, 1983 the official buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U .S. dollar, wh ich is the in terven t ion currency, were C$10.00 and C$10.10 per US$1, respec- t ive ly. The parallel buy ing and se l l ing rates were C$28.00 and C$28.50 per US$1, respectively. A tax of C$5 per US$1 is levied on purchases of foreign exchange for imports at the off ic ial rate; a number of basic goods classified as essential are exempt from th is tax. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from Ju ly 30, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank, wh ich has sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange. This au thor i ty has been delegated to the commercial banks w i th regard to transactions at both the official and the parallel exchange rate. The Central Bank is responsible for classifying imports, for issuing export authorizations, for authorizing sales of exchange at the official rate for capital transactions and for payments of invisibles, and for regulating and control- ling the operations taking place at the parallel rate. The Government Jun ta for National Reconstruction has f in al authorization over export and import c lass i f ica t ions. There is a Technical Commission for Imports and Exports consisting of representatives from the indus tr ia l, agricultural, and health sectors as well as representatives from the Central Bank and the Ministries of P lann ing and 354 External Trade. The commission meets twice a week to screen foreign exchange applications submitted through a sectoral m in is try or the External Trade M in is t ry. Final decisions on these allocations are taken by the Commis- sion for Foreign Exchange Allocation (CFA), wh ich is headed by a member of the Government Jun ta. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily convertible into U . S. dollars in international markets. Payments to Costa R ica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras w i th respect to trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicara- guan cordobas through the Central American Clearing House. For compensation through the Clearing House, the Central Bank does not accept bank notes of El Salvador in excess of 100,000 Salvadoran colones a mon th, of Gua tema la in excess of 200,000 Guatemalan que tza le s, and of Honduras in excess of 50,000 Hondu- ran lempiras. Imports and Import Payments All importers are required to be registered w i th the M in i s t ry of External Trade; th is requirement can be wa ived for i n d i v i d u a ls who import only occasionally for their own needs and who make import settlements w i th foreign exchange obtained at the parallel rate. In princi- p le, licenses are va l id un t il the end of the calendar year in wh i ch they are issued, but the Central Bank may limit the va l id i ty of permits in ind iv idual cases to 60 days. There are several categories of registered importers. The Empresa Nicaraguense de Insumos Agropecuarios, wh ich imports agr icu l tural inpu t s, and the Empresa Nicaraguense de Importaciones, which imports capital goods for nationalized enterprises, are state enterprises that are under the M in is t ry of External Trade; they are not the sole importers of these products. Other commer- cial and indus t r ial importers inc lude those who are permitted to import for fur ther sale and those who may on ly import for the ir own indus tr ial needs. A special perm it is required from the M in is t ry of External Trade for each ind iv idual import inc lud ing imports settled w i th foreign exchange obtained at the parallel rate. Importers must lodge applications with a sectoral m in is t ry or w i th the M in is try of External Trade. For applications that are accepted, a priority rating is assigned; applications w i th the higher priorities are submitted to the scrutiny of the Technical Commission for Imports and Exports, and thence submitted to the CFA for a f inal dec is ion. Border traders must be licensed by the M in is t ry of External Trade and cannot import more than the equ iva lent of US$1,500 a month; how- ever, they do not require a permit for each import operation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Basic commodities that are classified as essential are eligible for foreign exchange at the official rate and are exempt from the foreign exchange tax. These inc lude basic food products; medicines and medical equ ipmen t; petroleum and its derivatives; ag r icu l tu ral mach ine ry, spare parts, and tools; and pub l ic transportation equ ip- ment. Other basic commodities that are not classified as essential and are eligible for foreign exchange at the official rate are subject to an exchange tax of C$5 per US$1. Payments for imports from the Central Amer ican region must be effected in cordobas by bank check or certified check authorized for conversion through the Central American Clearing House. Payments for imports from outside the Central American region must be made with exchange purchased from the bank ing s y s t em .l Payments are usua l ly made by sight d ra f t s, and letters of credit are used for imports from Japan. Central bank approval is required to open both a sight letter of c red it and a term letter of credit. The banks are not perm i t ted to sell exchange for import paymen ts in advance of the arrival of the documen ts. The Central Bank may au tho- rize deferred payments or payment w i th funds derived from properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are cap i tal goods intended for development or production or for basic works com- plementary to production; such permission is at present limited ma in ly to indus t r ial and agr icu l tural mach inery and certain raw materials. Imports are not released from customs unless evidence is subm i t ted that either payment or acceptance has been made through a bank. In the latter case, the Central Bank must also approve the importation on credit terms; th is requ irement does not apply to du ty- free imports from member coun tr ies of the Cen tral American Common Market. Under the provisions of the Central American Agree- ment on Fiscal Incentives, N icaragua grants du ty exoner- ations on imports of raw materials and capital goods to approved industrial f irms. Most imports originating outside the Central Ame r i- can Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 percent of the applicable import d u t y. Certain commodities are subject to a compensatory (se lec t ive) consumption tax, irrespective of the ir o r ig in. Further- more, most commodities are subject to an 8 percent general sales tax, whether they are imported or domes- tically produced, and there is an additional 2 percent consump t ion tax levied for the benefit of the Mun ic ipal Welfare Board when the import takes place th rough Managua. 'H ow e v e r, by v i r tue of Decree No. 1-L ( e f f e c t i ve Ma rch 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds from b an an a s, coconu ts, copra, and coconut by- products exported th rough the ports of the region of El Cabo and the Department of Zelaya may be used by the expor ters to pay for commodities not produced in N ica ragua, w h i ch they them se lves impo rt for the e x c l u s i ve use of or consump t ion by the i n h a b i t a n ts of those areas. NICARAGUA Payments for Invisibles All sales of exchange for payments related to invis- ibles mu st be authorized by the Central Bank. Holders of fore ign-denom ina ted accounts w i th the domestic banks may not transfer abroad more than US$10,000 a year. Resident travelers are not allowed to export more than US$500 in fore ign bank notes at any given time, and may not take in or out of the country more than C$5,000 a month in domestic bank notes. There are no ceilings on inv is ib le transac t ions, but all foreign exchange applica- t ions for inv is ib les must be screened in the same way as applications for imports. Foreign exchange for approved app l ica t ions for purposes of tou r ism, s tudy, and medical trea tment abroad, as well as for fam i ly remittances and other transac t ions as decided by the Central Bank, can be obtained from the commercial bank at the parallel market rate. A i r l ines operating or represented in Nicaragua must accept payment for tickets in cordobas at the parallel exchange rate. The Central Bank w i ll authorize the sale of foreign exchange at the parallel rate to these compa- n ies equ iv a l ent to the U .S. dollar amount of the net income from au thor ized ac t iv i t ies. Exports and Export Proceeds The Ministry of External Trade is responsible for the f ive state en terpr ises that monopolize exports of coffee, cotton, mea t, sugar, and bananas, respectively. These exports requ ire a general authorization from the Central Bank. Exports of all other nontraditional goods require specific au tho r iza t ion from the Central Bank. The Central Bank issues the au thor iza t ion after ver ify ing that the export prices are consistent w i th those prevailing in in te rna t ional ma rke t s. W i th specified exceptions, foreign exchange proceeds from exports mu st be surrendered w i t h in 30 to 60 days of sh ipment at the off ic ial exchange ra te, depend ing on the modality of paymen t. Failure to surrender foreign exchange from export proceeds will resu lt in revocation of the export license. Small border traders, at the end of each mon th, must surrender at the parallel exchange rate any excess of export receipts over import paymen t s. Specified portions of proceeds from certain merchan- d ise expor ts may be surrendered in return for nonnego- t iab le "certificates of fore ign exchange ava i lab i l i ty ." Several ag r i cu l tu r al export products are subject to ad valorem taxes, wh ich are applied progressively with the international price. Proceeds from Invisibles W i th the exception of proceeds from foreign loans and inve s tmen t s, foreign exchange from invisibles can be sold at the pa ra l lel .rate. A r r iv ing tourists are required to exchange fo r thw i th at least US$60 at the off ic ial rate. Charges for hotel rooms and in terna t ional telephone calls mu st be settled in U . S. dollars. Embassies may sell at the pa ra l lel exchange rate the ir fore ign currency inf low for domestic expend i tu re. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Capital Authorization from the Central Bank is required for all capital transactions. Foreign exchange proceeds from loans and from investments made under the Foreign Investment Law must be surrendered to the Central Bank through its authorized agents at the off ic ial exchange rate. Foreign exchange is sold at the off ic ial rate for servicing external public debt, except for a small portion of debt still in the process of being renegotiated. With few exceptions, au thor iza t ion is given for servicing unguaranteed private debt un t il such debt has been renegotiated w i th the creditors. Gold Natural and jur id ical persons may trade in N icaragua in gold coins for num isma t ic purposes on ly. The Nicara- guan M in ing Ins t i tu te manages the coun t ry 's p roduc t ion. The Central Bank is in charge of selling th is gold at prices prevailing in international gold markets. The export cost is transferred to the M in is t ry of Finance in Nicaraguan cordobas. The Central Bank sells gold to domestic, indus tr ia l, and other users. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967, 1975, and 1980. Changes During 1983 Administration of Control May 28. All licenses for the operation of exchange houses were cancelled. Payments for Invisibles January 3. In a modification of regulations on sales of foreign exchange to a ir l ines, au thor iza t ion was granted for foreign exchange to be provided at the parallel market rate to cover their net income from authorized activities. March 1. The applicable exchange rate for authorized purchases of foreign exchange for purposes of travel, s tudy, and medical treatment abroad was changed from the off ic ial rate to the parallel market rate. May 28. Outward remittances in respect of educa- t ional fees and f am i ly remittances were added to the list of authorized inv is ib le transactions to be effected at the parallel market rate. Exports and Export Proceeds May 28. The exchange rate at wh ich border traders mu st l iqu ida te the ir excess of export proceeds over import paymen ts was changed from the official rate to the parallel market rate. Proceeds from Invisibles January 3. A regulation was introduced requiring tour is ts to pay charges for hotel rooms and international telephone calls in U .S. dollars. January 15. A regulation came into effect requiring tour is ts aged 18 years or above to exchange at least US$60 at the official exchange rate upon arrival. May 28. Changes were made in exchange control regu la t ions, g iv ing au thor iza t ion for a list of invisible transac t ions, inc lud ing receipts from tourism, remit- tances, g i f ts and other inward transfers, as well as repatriation of cap i ta l, to be effected at the parallel market rate. In add i t ion, authorization was given for embassies and offices of international organizations to exchange foreign currency receipts for their local ex- penses at the parallel market rate. 356 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Niger is the CFA F ranc ,1 wh ich is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buy ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA f ranc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per m i ll on transfers from countries outside the West A f r ican Mone- tary Union and one of 2.50 per m i ll on transfers to such countries.2 Transfers by the Treasury and the Postal Administration and transactions in bank notes and traveler's checks are exempted. Banks levy a commis- sion, part of wh ich must be surrendered to the Treasury, on transfers to all countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion. There are no taxes or subs id ies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures re la t ing to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, N ige r 's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Repub l ic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Ma l i, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made free ly. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Directorate in the M in is try of Finance. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, the Postal Administration, and notaries pub l ic, any information necessary to compile balance of payments s ta t is t ics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO, the Postal Adm in is tra- tion, or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Commerce and Transportation, subject to the visa of the External Finance Directorate, except for licenses relating to gold, wh ich are granted by the Ministry of Finance. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer h imse lf and are approved by the External Finance Directorate. Prescription of Currency Since Niger is an Operations Account coun t ry, set- tlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA f rancs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account coun try. Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Gu inea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mau r i tan ia, N ige r ia, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Certain settlements w i th Nigeria are still effected through special accoun ts .3 Settlements w i th all other countries are u su a l ly effected through correspondent banks in France, in foreign currencies, or in French francs, through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be credited w i th BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in N iamey by an authorized bank 's foreign correspondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, w i thout prior authorization, with the va lue of BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to the ir foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments All imports or ig ina t ing in South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports of soap, cemen t, and certain printed cotton fabrics are proh ib i ted, irrespective of origin, unless a special au tho r iza t ion is issued by the M in is try of Com- merce and Transportation. The import from any source of rice, paddy, hu l led rice, wheat f lou r, butane gas, several types of fabr ic, certain footwear, and certain plastic goods requires prior au thor iza t ion, irrespective of whether an import license or import certificate is also required. A s im i lar regime applies to imports of sugar, except from member countries of the Common African and Mau r i t ian Organization, and to imports of matches, un less they originate in a member country of the West Afr ican Economic Commun i ty. Imports from France and the Operations Account countries of all goods other than those mentioned above (or those listed in Article 1 of Order No. 042/MC/DCE of October 18, 1982) may be made freely w i thout a license or certificate. Imports from other countries require either a license or an import certificate. Imports of v i r tua l ly all goods from Algeria, Morocco, Tun is ia, and the six original member states of the EC, many goods from other OECD countries and their past or present dependent territories, and a smaller 'The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Cen t ra le des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in B e n i n, Ivory Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a. 2Transfers between member countries of the Un ion are sub ject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on se t t lemen ts between agencies of the BCEAO. 3The b i l a t e r al p aym en ts agreement w i th N iger ia lapsed at the end of 1977. How ev e r, N iger con t inues to m a in t a in accounts w i th banks in N ige r ia credited w i th receipts of exports to Nigeria by certain pub l ic en terpr ises in N ige r; the f u n ds are used to f in an ce imports of oil from N ig e r ia by en terpr ises in N ige r. 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER number of items from the Un i ted States and Canada are liberalized and require on ly an import certificate. Im- ports of nonliberalized goods from non-EC countries outside the French Franc Area are made under global quotas in accordance w i th an annual program determined each year by the M in is try of Commerce and Transporta- tion. Licenses for certain cotton fabrics are conditional upon purchases of the corresponding domestic product. Goods not subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction may be imported on an import certificate. The Societe Nationale de Commerce et de Production du Niger (CoPRONlGER) has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities. These include salt, cigarettes, green tea, and certain tex t i les. All import transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c . i . f. at the border. Import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the authorized bank is satisfied that the import transaction is genu ine and in accordance w i th the import title. Import certificates require the visa of the External Finance Directorate if the goods have to be paid for before they are imported. Foreign exchange may not be purchased before the payment due date if the goods have already been imported, or un t il eight days prior to the shipment date if the goods are covered by documen- tary credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Finance Directorate, wh ich for certain transactions has delegated its powers to the authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require au tho r iza t ion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, d iv idends, and royalties are also per- mitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling as tourists to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation equ iva lent to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip (CFAF 50,000 for children under ten years), which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 rema in ing after return to Niger must be sold w i th in eight days to an authorized bank. The transfer of savings from their salaries by foreigners working in Niger is subject to prior approval by the External Finance Directorate and is norma l ly limited to 50 percent of net pay. Larger transfers are permitted, however, for bona fide reasons. Residents traveling to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account countries, in addition to their travel 358 allocation. Residents traveling to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes bu t, when traveling to a country of the French Franc Area outside the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, must declare these if they exceed CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account countries, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon entry ,4 or, if no declaration was made, up to CFAF 25,000; they may also take out freely any amount of foreign currency traveler's checks, etc., issued abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South A f r ica are prohibited. All exports of rice and paddy require the prior authorization of the M in is try of Commerce and Transportation. Exports of m i l let and sorghum are prohibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the Office des Produits Vivriers du Niger (OPVN). Gum arabic may be exported on ly by COPRONIGER. W i th the exception of peanuts, peanut o i l, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cotton- seed, and certain other imported items, all of wh ich require a license, all other exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries may be made free ly. Exports of domestic products and imported commodities to other countries require a license and an exchange comm i tmen t. In principle, the due date of payment for exports to foreign countries must not be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. Proceeds from exports, regardless of the buy ing coun t ry, must be collected and surrendered through an authorized intermediary bank w i th in one month of the due date. All exports, regardless of des t ina t ion, must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when the ir va lue exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered w i th in two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin). Residents must surrender w i th in eight days of entry any foreign currency in excess of CFAF 5,000. 4Th is amount is reduced, when appropriate, by the amount sold for CFA francs and increased by the amount of fore ign notes acquired in N iger by deb it to a Foreign Account in Francs or a foreign currency accoun t, by exchange for other foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase w i th CFA francs (such repurchase being l im i ted to the e q u i v a l e nt of CFAF 25,000). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Capital movements between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun- tries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward invest- ment, and over the issu ing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Niger. Such operations require prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Nigerien Government and (2) shares that are identical w i th, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuance or sale in Niger has previously been authorized. With the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West African Monetary Un ion, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit w i th foreign private persons and foreign firms and ins t i tu t ions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate development operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provisions described in th is paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated paymen ts or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Niger require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance;5 75 percent of the value must be financed from borrowing abroad. Foreign direct investments in Niger6 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request postpone- ment of the project. The fu ll or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the l iqu ida t ion of investments, whether these are Nigerien investments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments constitute investments implying control of a company or an enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are 5Inc lud ing those made through foreign companies that are d i rec t ly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in N ige r. 6Inc lud ing those made by companies in N iger that are d i rec t ly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Niger of foreign companies. NIGER quoted on a stock exchange. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstand- ing of these loans, inc lud ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 2 m i l l ion for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds of the loan are immediately sold on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of a foreign borrowing cons t i tu t ing a direct investment is subject to the same formalities as the l iqu ida t ion of a direct inves tmen t; the repayment of other borrowings requires authorization only to the extent that the borrowing itself was subject to prior authorization. Foreign inves tmen ts in Niger may be granted certain guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of J u ly 31, 1968 and its amending texts. Existing benefits accorded under the previous Investment Code have been ma in ta ined. The new Investment Code provides for privileged or regular treatment. The latter provides assurances, for both new and existing enterprises, w i th respect to indemn i t ies in the event of expropriation and concerning nondiscrimination between Nigerien nation- als and foreign nationals; tax exemptions may be granted for new inves tmen ts. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and fa l l ing w i th in specified categories of industrial activities. Such treat- ment may be accorded under two d ifferent regimes, the approval regime and the agreement regime. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in N iger. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the M in is ter of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from th is requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles contain- ing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined we ight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1983 No s ign if icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Nigeria is the Nigerian Na i ra. Nigeria does not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions and pursues an independent and flexible exchange rate policy. The official middle rate for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, is determined on the basis of a basket of currencies. Official buying and selling rates are set at 0.25 percent on either side of the middle rate. On December 31, 1983 the middle rate against the U .S. dollar was US$1.3359 per N 1, and the buy ing and selling rates were US$1.3326 and US$1.3392, respectively, per N 1. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) also quotes daily rates at wh ich it is prepared to deal in pounds sterling. Cross rates are also available for other cu r renc ies .l All exchange dealings are for approved transactions and are on a spot basis on ly .2 There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. However, nongovernmental transactions are subject to a commission of 0.25 percent. For approved transactions authorized dealers may deal at market rates, spot or forward, between themselves and w i th resident and nonresident customers. Authorized dealers may enter freely into contracts w i th residents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any foreign currency for delivery at a fu tu re date, provided that the transaction is one that would be acceptable on a spot basis and relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to fre ight charges on a specific shipment of goods and is payable in a foreign currency. Forward contracts related to imports must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license or beyond the date of import, when the license has no expiration date or when no license is required. Forward contracts related to exports may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received w i th in three mon ths of sh ipment or w i th in such longer period as may have been authorized. Administration of Control The Federal M in is try of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for approving applications for the fo l low ing: copyrights; the repatriation of capital and transfer of profits; the raising of external loans, inc lud ing repayment of such loans; borrowing in Nigeria by companies controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria (other than local bank overdrafts to pay for imports); the granting of "approved status" to nonresident investments in Nigeria; and any 'For examp le, Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian do l la rs, French f ranc s, deutsche ma rk, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese y en, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, Norwegian kroner, and Swiss f ranc s. 2The Central Bank buys and sells U .S. dollars and pounds s te r l ing and is prepared to buy on ly those other currencies for wh ich it quotes da i ly rates. 360 dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank is the principal administrator of exchange control. Most com- mercial banks and merchant banks have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance and are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance w i th instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any application that does not fall w i th in the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the Ministry of Fi- nance. Certain hotels and rest houses have also been appointed authorized buyers of foreign currency and traveler's checks. All export proceeds and other proceeds in foreign currencies (except the proceeds of oil exports) are centralized w i th the Central Bank. The Central Bank supplies the authorized banks w i th foreign exchange for approved paymen ts. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal M in is try of Commerce and the Import Quota Committee, comprising officials of the Ministries of Commerce, Finance, Indus try, and Economic Devel- opmen t, as well as representatives of the Central Bank and the Department of Customs and Excise. Import licenses for petroleum products are issued by the Nigeria Na t ional Petroleum Corporation. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments may be made in naira to an External Account in Nigeria or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries may be received in naira from an External Account, in any foreign currency that is freely exchangeable for naira, or in any specified currency. Settlements with the central banks of West African states (for Ben in, Ivory Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta, The Gambia, Ghana, Gu inea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Ma l i, Mauri- tan ia, and Sierra Leone) are normally made through the West Afr ican Clearing House. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: External Accoun ts, Nonresident Accounts, and Blocked Accoun ts. External Accounts are maintained for resi- dents of all countries. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries, w i th payments from other External Accounts, and w i th proceeds from sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, with payments to other External Accoun ts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. Funds derived from local sources may be deposited in Nonresident Accounts. Such accounts may be credited w i th proceeds from services rendered locally, provided ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution that the operation of such accounts has been reported to and approval has been obtained from the Central B ank before any foreign t rans fe rs are effec ted. Blocked Ac- counts are accounts to wh ich are credited funds that are blocked by directives g iven und er Section 27 of the Exchange Control Ac t. Imports and Import Payments N ige r ia 's import po l ic ies are fo rmu l a t ed w i th the basic objectives of promo t ing i n d u s t r i a l i z a t i on (protection of local indus t r ies ), d i v e r s i f y i ng the economy, and support- ing the balance of paymen t s. Imports are c l a s s i f i ed in to three major categories: proh ib i ted impo r ts, imports subject to l i c en s ing r equ i r em en t s, and imports under open general license (OGL ) .3 The system of OGL provides for the unres tr ic ted impo r ta t ion of i tems w h i ch are ne i ther proh ib i ted nor sub ject to i n d i v i d u al l i c en s ing; ind iv idual import contracts of N 100,000 and above not invo lv ing the open ing of letters of credit are requ ired to be registered in advance w i th the M i n i s t ry of Commerce. This latter requ i rement is app l icab le to all impor ters. The procedures for the impor ta t ion of i tems sub ject to impo rt licensing no rma l ly call for ( i) the au tho r i t ie s' j u d gm e nt regarding domestic demand and supp ly cond i t ions for the commod i ty, and ( i i) the issuance of l icenses on a first-come-first-served basis to import up to the po int where the aggregate va lue of licenses issued is o f f i c i a l ly deemed equal to the es t ima ted excess of total domes t ic demand over domestic produc t ion for the respec t ive commodities. Since Ap r il 1982, the issuance of l icenses has become sub ject to the add i t ional con s t ra int of the foreign exchange budget and to a f o rm u la w h i ch a l lo ts to major indu s t r i al projects 60 percent of the aggregate value of all licenses issued, 30 percent to d i s t r ibu to rs according to their geographical location, and 10 percent to emergencies. Licenses are granted accord ing to a priority l ist w h i ch emphas izes raw ma te r ia l s, spare parts, mach ine ry, pub l ic goods, and cer ta in ma jor food i tems such as rice. Licenses gene ra l ly rema in va l id u n t il the expiration date spec if ied th e r e in. Some l icen se s, gener- ally for h igh v a l u e, b u l ky p roduc ts, are gran ted up to ha lf of the va lue requested and w i th a v a l i d i ty period that does not extend beyond the m idd le of the ca lendar year; however, provided the rec ip ient of such l icense makes f u ll use of it, an ex tens ion is au tom a t i c a l ly granted in an amount equivalent to that originally g iven, and for a period not to run beyond the calendar yea r. An import prohibition may be app l ied if, among other considera- t ions, the au thor i t ies arrive at a j u d gm e nt that domes t ic requirements can be f u l ly met by domestic p roduc t ion, or if the items concerned are considered none s sen t ia l. Items wh i ch may not be imported are subd iv ided in to two categories: those the impor ta t ion of w h i ch is abso lu te ly p roh ib i ted, and those wh i ch may be imported only as personal effec ts. The fo rmer category con ta ins 20 items, among wh i ch are air p is to ls, coun te r fe it coins 3A ll imports from Sou th A f r i ca and N am i b ia a re p r o h i b i t e d. In a d d i t i o n, on February 9, 1984 i s suance of OGL was d i s c o n t i n u ed and a ll imports were p laced u n d er s p e c i f ic import l i c e n s e. NIGERIA of any coun t ry, secondhand c lo th ing, certain types of sp i r i t s, meat declared to be u n f it for consump t ion, and indecent or obscene p r i n t s. The la t ter category comprises 68 i tem s, i n c l u d i ng c igare t tes, l ive pou l try (except day- o ld c h i c k s ), vege tab les, pastries, fresh f r u i t, potatoes, t ex t i le f ab r i c s, beer, f resh m i l k, rice in packets or in con ta ine rs of less th an 50 k i log ram s, toothpaste, and passenger cars w i th a c . i . f. va lue each exceeding N 15,000 or an eng ine capac i ty exceeding 2,500 cub ic cen t ime te r s. A f u r t h er l i st of 231 items may be imported on ly u n d er import license. These inc lude radio and te lev i s ion sets, any passenger car w i th a c . i . f. va lue not exceeding N 15,000 or an engine capacity not exceeding 2,500 c u b ic cen t ime te r s, sa l ted, dried or smoked f i sh, rye, ba r ley, oats, rice in con ta ine rs of 50 k i lograms, and above (prov ided th at import l icenses are awarded only to f ed e r a l, s ta te, and local government agencies), bu t ter, cheese, a r t ic les of iron and steel, cemen t, tea, s tockf ish, b e l t s, b u t t o n s, too thb rushes, and na il f i le s. An M fo rm, w h i ch is an app l ica t ion for foreign exchange, m u st be comp le ted for all imports into N i g e r i a, irrespec t ive of v a lu e. M fo rms are subm i t ted to the Cen tral Bank of N ige r ia by au thor ized exchange dealers on behalf of the private sector, and by the M in i s t ry of F inance for the p u b l ic sector.4 The Office of Exchange Con trol in the Cen tral Bank numbe rs, proc- esses, and reg is ters all M fo rms. Prior to subm i t t ing an M fo rm, an impo r ter mu st be registered as such w i th the M i n i s t ry of Commerce; if requ i red, he must have ob ta ined an import l icense for the goods to be imported; and he m u st be ab le to present a tax clearance certificate ( s h ow i ng the se t t lement of all tax l i a b i l i t i e s) covering the p rev ious three years. In add i t ion, if the goods to be imported are va lued at over the equ iva lent of N 100,000 and are not to be covered by a letter of credit, they must be registered w i th the M i n i s t ry of Commerce. Each completed M form (in sex tup l ica te) subm i t ted to the Cen tral B ank m u st be accompanied by a pro forma invo ice for the impo r t s, show ing the price split in to f . o . b. and f r e i g h t, w i th a ll anc i l la ry charges, such as comm i s s ions and in te rest charges, shown separately; in a d d i t i o n, each s u bm i t t ed M form mu st be supported by a 4B e g i n n i ng J a n u a ry 1, 1984, the Cen t ral B a nk of N ig e r ia delegates to the a u t h o r i z ed dea le rs the p rocess ing, r e g i s t r a t i o n, and i n i t i al app roval of a p p l i c a t i o ns by the p r i v a te sector and p u b l ic corporations for M forms and selected cases of A forms covering medical travels, bas ic t r a v el a l l ow a n c e, b u s i n e ss t r a v el a l low an ce (suspended for an ' n d e f i n i te p e r iod ), p r i v a te m em b e r s h ip sub s c r ip t ions a nd e x am i n a t i on fee s, p a ym e n ts for correspondence courses, m o n t h ly home rem i t tances by f o r e i gn n a t i o n a ls ( i n c l u d i ng l e ave p a y, bonu s, a nd g r a t u i t y ), p e n s i on a nd p r o v i d e nt f u nd c o n t r i b u t i o n s, a nd t u i t i on a nd m a in t en an ce a l l ow a n ce for p r i v a te s t u d e n ts ab road; M and A forms r e l a t ing to m e r c h a n d i se impor ts and i n v i s i b le paymen ts of the federal and state g o v e r nm e n ts c o n t i n ue to be reg is tered by the Cen t ral B a nk of N ige r ia. U n d er the new r e g u l a t i o n s, each au tho r i z ed dea ler is g i v en a fore ign e x c h a n ge c e i l i ng for the year 1984, and each dea ler is required not to exceed one t w e l f t h, on ave rage, of the a l loca t ion in each mon th in the i s su an ce of fo rms M and A. In reg i s te r ing the M and A fo rms, the a u t h o r i z ed dea le rs m u st observe the f o l l ow i ng a l lo c a t ion coe f f ic ien ts (as a pe rcen tage of to t al a l l o c a t i o n s ): (a) i n d u s t r i al raw ma te r ia ls, m a ch in e ry, comp le te ly knocked-down components and spare parts, 58; (b) food i t em s, 18; (c) g en e r al m e r c h a n d i s e, 12; and (d) i n v i s i b l e s, 12. F i n al app roval of a p p l i c a t i o ns for fo re ign exchange c o n t i n u es to depend upon c o n f i rm a t i on by the C en t r al B a nk of N i g e r i a. 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA statement showing the M forms already registered in favor of the importer during the past 12 mon ths, together with details of the utilization of such forms, inc lud ing quantities, va lues, and the dates of arrival and collection of goods involved. It is only after an M form has been processed and registered by the Central Bank that an importer can confirm his order to the seller. In the absence of a registered M form, a letter of credit may not be opened, nor may any form of payment for imports be effected. On completion of processing, M forms gener- ally remain valid for six months, during which period the items specified must arrive in Nigeria; reva l ida t ion beyond the expiry period is granted on ly under excep- tional circumstances. All imports valued at N 5,000 or more are subject to preshipment inspection by the Societe Generale de Surveillance, S .A. (SGS), to ensure that all imports into Nigeria are of the correct qu a l i ty and quan t i ty according to the contracts, and that on ly the normal price of that commodity in the coun try of supp ly is paid .5 Unless the SGS issues a "Clean Report of Finding" on the goods to be imported, foreign exchange settlement for imports may not be effected. W i th regard to price, the final invoice for the imports does not have to agree with the details declared on the M form, provided that (a) the price is supported in every respect by a Clean Report of Finding issued by the SGS, and (b) any increase over the declared M form price does not exceed 10 percent of the declared total c . i . f. amoun t. Increase in price in excess of 10 percent requires a new M form. Approval of payment in excess of the va lue specified in the original application is normally not granted for import transactions valued at less than the m i n im um amount subject to preshipment inspection. When import payments are to be made against letters of credit, all documents re la t ing to the imported goods must be lodged w i th the Office of Exchange Control at the Central Bank w i th in 21 days of receipt of the cable document in respect of the sh ipp ing documents covering the goods. All other means of payment require subm is- sion to the Central Bank of a similar set of documen ts, with the exception of the b i ll of en try, and then only in those cases where foreign exchange is sought prior to the arrival of the goods at the customs in Nigeria. In all cases, the bill of en try, ta l ly sheet, or air cargo delivery gate pass must be submitted to the Central Bank w i t h in 90 days of receipt of cable or on arrival of goods at customs. Under normal c ircums tances, the completed "package" of documents is processed w i th in 2-7 days. If the Central Bank is satisfied with all the documents, the Office of Exchange Control w i ll issue a foreign ex- change release order (an approved M form) to the Foreign Operations Department of the Central Bank. However, an ad hoc reinspection of the documents can 5Beg inn ing Janua ry 1, 1984 i n d i v i d u al import t ransac t ions of N 1,000 or more by the private sector or pub l ic corporations are subject to preshipment inspec t ion, w i th the fo l low ing excep t ions: go ld, precious stones, objects of art, explosives and py ro techn ic p roduc ts, ammun i t ion, imp lemen ts of wa r, l ive an ima l s, f resh, ch i l l ed, f rozen, or tinned fru i ts and vegetables, scrap metals, household and personal effec ts, inc lud ing used motor veh ic les, parcel post or samp les, and petroleum and refined petroleum products. 362 be under taken in consu l ta t ion w i th the Foreign Oper- ations Department before a foreign exchange release order is issued. W i th the exception of some payments made by the Central Bank for the Government, foreign exchange is released to authorized dealers, allowing them to effect payment for imports or to reimburse their correspondent banks for import payments already made. Other than against letters of credit, payment for imports may also be made against bills for collection, intercom- pany open accounts, usance b i l ls, or most other credit terms arranged between importers and exporters. Import contracts requ i r ing deferred paymen ts, installments, or p repaymen ts6 need approval from the Central Bank for pr iva te sector imports and from the M in is t ry of Finance for pub l ic sector imports. Advance import deposits are required for all cate- gories of imports other than petroleum products and rice, except for imports for wh ich credit fac i l i t ies of more than six mon ths have been obtained. The advance deposit rates range from 10 percent of va lue for raw materials, 15 percent for spare parts, 50 percent for books, food (exc lud ing r ice), med icamen ts, bu i ld ing materials, and capital goods, 200 percent for motor vehicles and trucks, to 250 percent for motor cars and all other goods. For imports under letters of credit, banks must obtain the required advance deposits before opening the letter of credit. For imports requ ir ing payment w i th in six months of the shipment of the goods to N iger ia, the importer is required to make the advance deposits w i th his commer- cial banks not later than ten days before the arrival of the goods in N ige r ia .7 The advance deposits, wh ich do not earn interest, must be kept by the intermediary banks in a separate account and deposited w i th the Central Bank w i t h in three days after the end of each mon th. The latter requ irement is in l ine w i th the ma in purpose of the advance import deposit scheme, which is to absorb excess l i q u i d i t y. Certain import paymen ts have been delayed. Subject to the av a i l ab i l i ty of fund s, the Central Bank releases foreign exchange against approved M forms or A forms on a "first in, f irst out" basis, and according to the fo l low ing priority categories: (a) payments for the servicing of the external deb t, medical b i l l s, business travel a l lowances, seminars, personal home remittances, school fees, and certain obligations of the Nigerian A i r l ines and N iger ian Na t ional Petroleum Corporation; (b) paymen ts for importation against letter of credit of raw ma ter ia ls, books, spare parts, medicine, and other essential goods; and (c) all other paymen ts. Settlement of the interest charges is usua l ly effected when the arrears are settled. Settlement of arrears is made at the exchange rate preva i l ing on the settlement date. Arrears on paymen ts due to commercial banks (on letters of credit) have been subject to consolidation agreements. 6B e g i n n i ng J anu a ry 1, 1984 p repayment for imports by the private sector and p u b l ic corporations is p roh ib i ted. 7 As part of the changes w h i ch came in to effect on Janua ry 1, 1984, all imports other than rice and petroleum products are subject to advance import deposits to be lodged at the moment of application for fore ign exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Payments for inv i s ib les to res iden ts of other coun tr ies are subject to ind iv idual approva l; for some categories of invisibles th is is granted by au thor ized dealers, e i ther up to specified l im i ts or up to the amount of the b i ll or invoice. Applications for paymen ts that cannot be approved by authorized dealers and are not among those (such as profits and d iv idends)8 that requ ire approval by the Ministry of Finance are forwarded to the Central Bank for decision. An A fo rm, wh i ch is subject to a similar review process as an M form (see footnote 4), must be filed w i th the Central Bank for all inv i s ib le payments. A ll insu rance other than that for wh ich facilities do not ex ist in Nigeria mu st be taken out w i th a company in N ige r ia, and all insu rance compan ies operat- ing in the coun t ry must re insu re w i th the Na t ional Insurance Corporation. Residents are entitled to a basic tou r ist travel a l low- ance in foreign exchange up to a l im it e q u i v a l e nt to N 500 a person a year (there is no allowance for children under 16 years) .9 There is also a separate a l lowance for pilgrims; each p i lg r im 16 years and older is en t i t led to a maximum of N 800. The basic travel allowance and that for the pilgrims are m u t u a l ly exc lus ive; that is, no individual may obtain the two in one f iscal yea r. Foreign exchange for these purposes may be sold to residents by authorized dealers. In add i t ion, travel agents and sh ip- ping and a ir l ine companies in N iger ia may sell transpor- tation tickets for any des t ina t ion against payment in Nigerian currency. The cost of services rendered by travel agents in respect of hotel accommoda t ion, meals en route, etc ., must be covered from the basic travel allowance. Foreign exchange a l lowance for bus iness travel is l im i ted to N 100 a day, for a m a x im um of 25 days a year, w i th an annual l im it of N 2,500. No individual trip is allowed to extend beyond 15 d a y s .10 Residents w ish ing to travel abroad for medical reasons should u t i l ize their basic travel allowance for th is purpose. An allowance up to N 2,000 is available for 8Prof i ts and d iv id end p aym en ts rem i t ted abroad and d i sbu r sed locally may not exceed 30 percent of a comp any 's cap i tal stock. New profits and d iv id ends may be rem i t ted as soon as they are dec lared, provided tha t, in the case of a i r l i ne and s h i p p i ng compan ie s, a tax at the rate of 10 percent is p a i d. The tax is he ld on account u n t il corporate tax returns are assessed and f i led. Rem i t tances of techn ical fees, manage- ment fees, and roya l t ies are pe rm i t ted w h en it can be shown th at these are related to the import of modern techno logy. P a ym e n ts for t e chn i c al and management fees requ ire approval by the M i n i s t ry of F i n a n c e. A max imum of 2 percent of p ro f it before tax is p e rm i t t ed. For new companies a l ump sum is app l ied in l ieu of the 2 percent of prof it before tax for the f i rst three yea rs. S im i lar po l ic ies are app l icab le to other paymen ts for services, such as those re la t ing to copy r igh ts and trademarks. In the case of roya l t ies, exchange a l lowance is based on vo lume of sales, sub ject to a m a x im um of 1 percent except for books and mu s ical records, wh ich are treated on a case-by-case basis in relation to in te rna t ional prac t ice. Foreign c o n s u l t a n ts pe r fo rm ing profess ional services in N ige r ia are a l lowed to rem it to th e ir associates abroad up to 30 percent of the amount con t rac ted. 9As part of the measures w h i ch came in to e f fect on J a n u a ry 1, 1984 the fore ign exchange a l lowance for tou r ist t ravel has been reduced to the equ iva lent of N 100 a year for i n d i v i d u a ls aged 16 and above. l()Foreign exchange allowance for business travel has been sus- pended i n d e f i n i t e ly und er the set of measu res w h i ch came i n to e f f e ct on January 1, 1984. NIGERIA su rge ry, and add i t ional amoun ts in excess of N 2,000 are provided when suppor t ing evidence is subm i t t ed .11 Foreign exchange is granted for all bona f ide expenses for educa t ion beyond the pr imary l e v e l .12 Foreign exchange allowances for e lemen ta ry school educa t ion abroad are not granted except in special cases, such as those of handicapped children for whom educational facilities are not available locally. Exchange applications for most non tour ist travel must be submitted to the Central Bank. Remittances by residents for g i ft purposes are l im i ted to N 150 a year for ind iv idua ls and N 500 for charitable organizations. Foreign nationals residing in N iger ia may purchase annua l ly foreign currency up to 50 percent of their net income for all personal remittances ( in c lud ing insurance, educa t ion, medical expenses, proceeds from sales of assets, provident fund contributions, sundry payments, and the basic travel allowance); applications in excess of t h is l im it are exam ined on the ir merits by the Central B a n k. When tak ing overseas leave, foreign nationals may also convert up to three mon th s' pay in to foreign exchange. Res iden ts are permitted to take out the equivalent of the ir basic travel allowance in foreign currency notes and t rave le r 's checks; nonresident visitors may take out any foreign currency notes and trave ler's checks that were declared upon en t ry, m inus the amount converted locally into N ige r ian cu r rency. Travelers may take out N 50 in domestic notes and co in; all other export of Nigerian currency notes and coin is proh ib i ted. Exports and Export Proceeds N ig e r i a 's export policy aims to assist local (particu- la r ly ag r icu l tu ra l) producers, and to buttress the na t ion 's import policies. Consequen t ly, certain exports are pro- h ib i ted, wh i le others are subject to licensing require- m e n t s .13 The exportation of 11 items is absolutely prohibited; these inc lude beans, maize, rice, m i lk, g roundnut o i l, and all imported food products. In add i t ion, the export of A f r ican an t iques, works of art, and objects used (or wh ich have been used) in Afr ican ceremonies is p roh ib i ted, except under prescribed condi- t ion s. A fu r ther l ist of 36 products may be exported only " B e g i n n i ng J a n u a ry 1, 1984 fo re ign exchange is no longer made a v a i l a b le for med ical t rea tment abroad, un less the need for such t r e a tm ent is ce r t i f ied by the Ch ief Medical Officer of the state where the applicant is resident (on the recommendation of the State Medical Board), and subject to a le t ter from an overseas doctor or hospital i n d i c a t i ng acceptance for such t rea tment and s ta t ing b i l ls payab le and the n um b er of days of stay for med ical t rea tment abroad. l 2B e g i n n i ng J a n u a ry 1, 1984 no o f f i c i al sales of foreign exchange are made to new s tuden ts i n t e n d i ng to fo l low unde rg radua te or p ro fess ional courses abroad; such sales are allowed on ly for post- g radua te courses abroad, prov ided th at (a) the rec ip ient is sponsored by the Gov e rnm ent or by some o f f i c i al agency, and (b) the courses are not a v a i l a b le at N ige r ian u n i v e r s i t i e s. S tuden ts who on Janua ry 1, 1984 were a t t end ing u n i v e r s i t i es or i n s t i t u t i o ns of h igher learn ing abroad and had p r ev iou s ly been granted fore ign exchange are, howeve r, exempted from the new r e g u l a t i o n s, p rov ided that th e ir app l ica t ions for foreign exchange are accompanied by adequate documen ta t ion, inc lud ing a l e t t er from a N i g e r i an Embassy or H i gh Comm iss ion abroad. 1 3Expo r ts to Sou th A f r i ca and N am i b ia are p roh ib i ted. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA under license. These latter products include cigarettes and tobacco, unrefined gold, petroleum products, raw cocoa beans, raw cotton, groundnuts, cottonseed cake, oil and meal and palm kernel cake, meal, and oil. The sale abroad of all export crops purchased by the Marketing Boards (cocoa, cotton, groundnuts, and palm kernels) is the responsibility of each Board under the general guidance of the Export Commodity Coordinating Council. Exports of petroleum are handled by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation and are subject to special arrangements. Export proceeds must be surrendered, through an authorized dealer, to the Central Bank w i th in three months of shipment. Exports of petroleum and petro- leum products, however, are exempt from the surrender requirements. For all exports, the exporter is required to submit an exchange control declaration at the time of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer, for surrender to the Central Bank. Persons entering Nigeria may freely bring in foreign bank notes, but must encash such foreign currency with an authorized dealer who mus t, in turn, surrender it to the Central Bank. Travelers may bring in N 50 in domestic currency; all other import of Nigerian currency notes and coin is prohibited. Capital Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. In addition, official agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The contracting of suppliers' credit abroad by state-controlled corporations or agencies also is subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. The permission of the Ministry of Finance is required for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any nonresident individual or company and (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) which is controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign currency securities or buy from or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in naira without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securi- ties registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negotiated through authorized dealers, 364 provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Exchange for the transfer of certain assets by emi- grants or repatriates is granted on final departure from the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized in order to comply w i th the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decrees of 1972 and 1977 may take place upon receipt. Ceilings for foreign capital participation in the equity capital of enterprises in various sectors of the economy have been set by the Indigenization Decree of 1974, as amended in June 1976 and January 1977. Nonresidents intending to make direct investments in Nigeria may apply to the Ministry of Finance for approved status, the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration will be given to fu ture requests to repatriate the capital and related profits and dividends. The granting of approved status is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this status is not normally granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, or bank credit or locally raised loans are invested in local enterprises. With minor exceptions, foreign-owned com- panies and commercial banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. The repatriation of foreign capital requires approval from the Ministry of Finance. Gold With permission of the Federal Ministry of Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for num isma t ic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed, without special permission, to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coin, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Furthermore, the import of U .K. gold coin requires a license from the Commis- sioner of Customs and Excise, and the import of other gold coin requires a specific import license. Imports of gold coin and gold and silver bullion are free of duty when made by the Central Bank; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 percent ad valorem. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments January 1. The list of products subject to import licensing requirements was expanded by 150 items, and new or increased import duties were levied on 15 groups of items, while the rate of duty on one group of items was lowered. The additions to the import licensing list included spades and shovels, wheelbarrows, milk pow- der, margarine, baby food, frozen fish, maize, tinned f ish, stationery, electric fittings, shoe soles, metal f i t t ings, sockets and plugs, petroleum products and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution derivatives, groundnut oil, essential oils, articles of iron and steel, combs, calculators, lubricating oil, cotton wool, nailbrushes, and bu i ld ing materials other than glass. Items on which tariffs were raised included toilet soap, blankets, cotton yarns, stoves, and wheelbarrows; tariffs were reduced on specified artifical resins. In addition, the advance import deposit rates for raw materials and spare parts were reduced from 25 percent of value to 10 percent and 15 percent, respectively. January 23. The list of items subject to import licensing requirements was consolidated to remove certain ambiguities and dup l ica t ions, w i th the result that the number of items on the list was reduced from 253 to 231. In add i t ion, ta r i f fs were raised on five import items, inc lud ing soup, refrigerators, and bicycles; and the list of prohibited items (except as personal effects) was lengthened to 68 by the inc lus ion of all passenger cars with a c . i . f. va lue each exceeding N 15,000 or an engine capacity exceeding 2,500 cubic centimeters. NIGERIA 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Norway is the Norwegian Krone. The external value of the krone is pegged to a currency index number reflecting the average change in the exchange rates of the 14 currencies most important to Norway's external trade and payments. The exchange rate is managed so as to allow only limited f luc tua t ions around the benchmark for the effective va lue. The weights of the index are, in principle, based on Norway's exports of processed goods to each of the countries whose curren- cies are included, taking also into account competitive relations with third countries. The exchange rate of the krone for the U .S. dollar, the principal intervention currency, is quoted da i ly, together w i th those of 18 other currencies, on the basis of the market rates. On Decem- ber 30, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were NKr 7.6910 and NKr 7.7130, respec- tively, per US$1. Forward prem iums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Forward transac- tions w i th nonbank residents by authorized banks and foreign exchange brokers must have a commercial basis. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Norway formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is try of Finance and Customs in cooperation w i th the Bank of Norway. Most current payments are exempt from ex- change control, provided that they are made through authorized banks in accordance w i th the currency pre- scriptions issued by the Bank of Norway. Au thor i ty to conduct most current payments has been delegated to authorized banks, which report such payments to the Bank of Norway. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner in Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Convert- ible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all countries. They may be credited with authorized payments from any country, with transfers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, and w i th proceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible curren- 366 cies. They may be debited for authorized payments from any country to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Authorized banks are permitted to open foreign exchange accounts for nonresi- dents, subject to the regulations on such accounts (see section on Capital, b e low ) .l Imports and Import Payments Most commodities do not require an import license. Certain textiles and garments originating in countries outside the EC and the EFTA are subject to global quotas. Certain other textiles and garments are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. There is a restricted list of imports of a limited number of industrial goods; however, many of the goods on this list are licensed automatically. With these exceptions, industrial goods may be imported freely upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain agricultural goods are restricted, irrespective of origin. A global quota list contains a few quotas for agricultural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to all countries. New and secondhand ships other than ships that are 20 years old or older, and certain categories of fishing vessels, may be imported f ree ly ,2 but special permission is required in order to ensure compliance w i th the regulations regarding payments in advance of delivery. The import of radio equipment and radio control equipment is subject to approval by the Direc- torate of Telecommunications. The import of a small number of commodities is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alco- holic beverages, fishing gear made of textile materials, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. Payments for Invisibles Payments to any country for all current invisibles, including income from capital and contractual amortiza- tion, may be made freely. The authorized banks, however, require verification if the payment exceeds the equ iva lent of NKr 2,000. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is the equivalent of NKr 10,000 a trip for each person. For business travel, the banks may sell reasonable amounts. Each person leaving Norway may take with him up to NKr 2,000 in Norwegian bank notes. Nonresidents leaving Norway may, in addition, export any foreign bank notes brought into the country by them. 'Residents also may open foreign exchange accounts. The customer must have both income and expend i ture in foreign currencies. Holdings in these accounts mu st not exceed the amount required to cover obligations due in the immediate fu tu r e. 2Au toma t ic authorization is not granted for imports from Albania, Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Macao, Mongolia, and Viet N am. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to any country against a declaration or a license. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. Exports valued at not more than NKr 2,000 to any country are exempt from declaration or export license; for arms and ammun i t ion, f ish, and fish products, this l im it is NKr 500.3 If payment is not received w i th in 12 months of delivery, a license from the Bank of Norway is required. In principle, all exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered. A person entering Norway may br ing in any amount in Norwegian currency and in other means of payment. Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Norway by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. Outward transfers of capital require ind iv idual licenses; the granting of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward transfers of proceeds from the sale or l iqu ida t ion of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted free ly, and nonresident capital may be repatriated au toma t ica l ly. Payments for contractual amortization are also permitted freely. Most transactions in securities invo lv ing nonresi- dent interests are subject to approval. Nonresidents are allowed to purchase listed Norwegian shares and bearer bonds. However, a ceiling of NKr 1 m i l l ion an investor applies to nonresidents' purchase of listed Norwegian bearer bonds .4 Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of imm ig ran ts' debts, may be made freely. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized invest- ments, have to be surrendered. Norwegian shipowners, insurance companies, and brokers may open accounts of 30 days' ma tur i ty with foreign banks; upon special permission from the Bank of No rway, other Norwegian firms may also hold such accounts. On special applica- tion, permission may be given by the Bank for Norwe- gian firms hav ing long-term currency debt to hold t ime deposits abroad in foreign currency and to purchase 3On Janua ry 1, 1984 the l im it on exports of f ish and f ish products w i thout declaration or export license was increased from NKr 500 to NKr 1,000. 4As an excep t ion, foreign insurance compan ies may, on approval of application, invest in listed Norwegian bearer bonds in amoun ts exceeding th is ce i l ing, in order to cover the ir needs for techn ical NORWAY foreign bonds quoted on recognized stock exchanges, w i thout l im it on the ma tu r i ty of such assets. Applications for capital transfers to make direct investments abroad are treated l ibera l ly, but portfolio investment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Resi- dent-owned foreign securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange, w i th the exception of securities issued by foreign investment companies or mu tual fund s, are freely negotiable between residents, provided that the securities originally were acquired by a resident before October 1, 1966, or that they were bought w i th the proceeds of foreign securities acquired before that date. Residents may upon application transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at up to NKr 400,000 a fam i ly; such purchases by business f i rm s, staff associations, etc., are approved for higher amoun ts. There are no nom inal l im i ts on authorized banks' borrowing abroad, but authorized banks have to balance their combined spot and forward positions in foreign currency at the end of the day w i th in narrow margins varying between banks according to the size of their total assets. Banks are permitted to hold positions in any currency that is covered in other currencies. A license from the M in is try of Finance and Customs is required to raise bond loans in foreign countries. Borrowing abroad in connection w i th imports of ships must be approved by the M in is t ry of Commerce and Sh ipp ing. All other inward transfers of capital by nonbank residents require approval by the Bank of No rway. Incu r r ing or prov id ing guarantee obligations abroad also requires approval by the Bank of Norway. W i th the exception of loans to the petroleum sector, sh ipp ing, and sh ipyards, new foreign borrowing by Norwegian commercial enterprises must be w i th in over- all l im i ts specified for 1983 as the equivalent of NKr 3.4 b i l l ion for short-term loans and NKr 2.0 billion for med ium- and long-term loans. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bu l l ion and gold coin not contained in jewe l ry. Domestic sales of gold bu l l ion and gold coin are subject to the regular value- added tax at a rate of 20 percent. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments November 9. Import taxes on automobiles were in- creased by 15 percent. Capital April 1, The M in is t ry of Finance announced that authorization would be granted for the establishment of foreign exchange brokerage firms to handle spot and forward contracts and foreign currency deposits. (Prev- iously foreign exchange transactions in Norway were carried out exc lus ive ly by the banks .) 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Oman is the Rial Omani, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at RO 1 = US$2.89524. Oman avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Oman ma in ta ins fixed buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar; on Decem- ber 31, 1983 these rates were RO 1 - US$2.89234 and RO 1 = US$2.89814, respectively. The commercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Oman informed the Fund on June 19, 1974 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4 of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank, but there is no exchange control legislation in Oman. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited, and the use of their currencies is also prohibited. No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for reasons of health, security, or public policy. Imports of Maria Theresa dollars also are prohibited. Licenses are required for imports; exchange for payments abroad for authorized imports may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited, and exports or re-exports of live animals and foods tuffs may be prohibited in times of shortage in Oman. All other commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re- exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surren- dered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or be received from Israel or South Africa. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. 368 Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, except that no payments may be made to or received from Israel or South Afr ica. Investment in business firms in Oman by foreign physical or juridical persons requires prior approval. Such investment is regulated by a foreign investment law enacted in June 1983, and by a law for the Organization and Encouragement of Indus try, which came into effect on January 15, 1979. Under the 1983 foreign investment law, jo int ventures are offered a five- year tax holiday, renewable for an additional period of five years under certain conditions, the Oman Devel- opment Bank can provide medium- and long-term loans at preferential interest rates for project financing in petroleum, agricultural, fishery, and mineral sectors; assistance in preinvestment research can also be given. Foreign investment is not permitted in trade and ser- vices, and foreign capital is encouraged to be directed to large production or manufac tur ing projects. Gold The monetary authorities and authorized resident and nonresident banks may, without license, purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also import and export gold in any form without a license and w i thout payment of any customs duties or tax. Transactions involving Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement August 15. Nonbank businesses, whether fu l ly do- mestic or with a foreign participation of not more than 25 percent, were required to obtain licenses valid for a period of five years from the Central Bank of Oman as a condition for conducting foreign exchange transactions. In addition, money changers dealing only in foreign currency were required to have a m in imum capital of RO 10,000, and dealers in traveler's checks and drafts, a m in imum capital of RO 150,000 (of which RO 20,000 should be maintained in a fixed interest-bearing deposit at the Central Bank of Oman); dealers issuing drafts were prohibited from investing their receipts from such trans- actions in the period before encashment of the drafts; and all dealers were required to keep a fu ll record of their foreign exchange transactions. Imports and Import Payments June 17. In concert with other member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council (Bahrain, Kuwa i t, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates), Oman introduced a basic rate of customs duty of 4 percent as a first step toward establishing a common market among the countries of the Council. In addition, the import ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution duties were changed as follows: on alcoholic beverages and spirits, from 75 percent to 100 percent; on tobacco and related products, from 30 percent to 50 percent; on emulsion and enamel paints, from 20 percent to 4 per- cent, and on ice cream, from 10 percent to 4 percent. Capital June 6. A new foreign investment law was enacted, under which joint ventures would be offered a five-year tax holiday, renewable for an additional period of five years under certain conditions. In addition, the Oman Development Bank was empowered to provide medium- and long-term loans at preferential interest rates for proj- ect f inanc ing in the petroleum, agricultural, fisheries, and mineral sectors; and assistance in preinvestment research would also be provided. However, foreign in- vestment would no longer be permitted in trade and services, and foreign capital would be encouraged to concentrate on large production or manufacturing projects. OMAN 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistan Rupee, for wh ich the U .S. dollar is the in te rven t ion currency. A managed f loa t ing exchange rate system is operated, under wh ich the State Bank of Pakistan ( the Central Bank) sets on a daily basis the rate at wh ich it w i ll purchase and sell U .S. dollars in its dealings w i th authorized dealers. On December 31, 1983 the State Bank's buy ing and selling rates for transactions w i th authorized dealers were PRs 13.5000 and PRs 13.5156, respectively, per US$1. All transactions w i th the pub l ic in foreign exchange must be conducted th rough au tho- rized dealers and money changers, whose dea l ings must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. In ca lcu la t ing spot exchange rates for other currenc ies, a margin of 0.0625 percent is provided on e i ther side of the mean rate based on the previous day 's closing b u y i ng and selling rates for the currency concerned in the New York market. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover their requirements of specified currencies in foreign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover the ir permitted transactions in specified currencies against U.S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, w i th their agents in the countries concerned. In add i t ion, they offer forward cover in the currencies of member countries for exports and imports effected under the Asian Clearing Un ion arrangemen t, with the State Bank s tand ing ready to cover forward contracts reported by authorized dealers. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases and sales of fore ign exchange. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated au thor i ty to a numb er of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes w i t h in l im i ts pre- scribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses and permits, as we ll as the imp lemen ta t ion of import and export policies. Certain foreign trade transac- tions are conducted through various state-trading agen- cies, such as the Trading Corporation of Pak is tan, Ltd. (TCP), the Cotton Export Corporation, Ltd. (CECP), and the Rice Export Corporation, Ltd. (RECP). Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and paymen ts abroad must be effected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer, in principle, in any convertible currency or in Pakistan rupees from or to nonresident rupee bank accounts. Certain settlements w i th specified countries are chan- neled through special accounts. Letters of credit for imports from all other countries must be established in 370 foreign currency or in Pak is tan rupees for credit to a nonres ident bank account of the coun try of the benefi- c ia ry or of the coun t ry of o r ig in or sh ipment of goods. No exchange control is exercised over transactions w i th A fgh an i s t an, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or in A fgh an currency. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconve r t ib le currencies. Trade in specified com- modities w i th Bu lga r ia, the People's Repub l ic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hung a ry, the Democratic People's Re- public of Korea, Poland, Sweden, and the U .S .S .R. is settled through special nonconvertible accounts. The special accounts w i th the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Hung a ry, Poland, Sweden, and the U .S .S .R. are ma in ta ined in nonconvertible U .S. dollars, and the special account w i th the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea is denom ina ted in deutsche mark. Payments to and from the Islamic Republic of Iran and Turkey re la t ing to v is ib le trade (exc lud ing border trade and defense materials) are settled through clearing accounts ma in ta ined by the respective central banks in U .S. dollars. Payments to, and receipts f rom, member countries of the As ian Clearing Un ion other than the Is lam ic Repub l ic of Iran ( i .e ., Bangladesh, Burma, I n d i a, Nepa l, and Sri Lanka) in respect of current transactions (other than those re la t ing to petroleum, na tu ral gas, and the ir produc ts) may be effected in Asian Monetary U n i ts through the As ian Clearing Un ion or in the domestic currency of one of the member countries invo lved in such t ransac t ions. Paymen ts between Pakistan and Israel and South Afr ica are suspended. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of i n d i v i d u a l s, f i rms, or companies resident ou ts ide Pakistan are designated as nonresident accoun t s .' Au tho r ized banks are permitted to open nonres ident accounts for nonbank nonresidents without the prior approval of the State Bank where the accounts are to be opened w i th funds received from abroad th rough b ank ing channe ls or w i th rupee funds that have been accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonres ident accoun ts for specified purposes may be made by authorized banks w i thout the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Ind i an Embassy and its personne l, are blocked. Pak is tani na t iona ls residing abroad and foreign nation- als, whe ther resident abroad or in Pakistan, and firms and corporations (other than banks) and charitable bodies owned by persons who are otherwise eligible to open foreign currency accounts may open foreign currency 'D i f f e r e nt ru les app ly to nonres ident rupee accounts of individuals, f i rms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of b ank s, on the o ther h and. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution accounts with banks in Pakistan w i thout prior approval of the exchange control authorities. There are no restrictions on the currencies in which the accounts may be denominated; credit balances may be transferred abroad, and interest on such accounts is exempt from income tax. A deposit holder wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from his account into Pakistan rupees. If a Pakistani national holding such an account returns to Pakistan, he may retain the account unless his stay exceeds six months; thereafter, the account must be closed and the exchange surrendered. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Imports and Import Payments The 1983/84 Import Policy Order (IPO) and its subsequent amendments ou t l ine the regulations applica- ble to imports.2 The IPO divides imports into three categories: prohibited imports, restricted imports, and permitted imports. All imports which do not appear either on the prohibited (negative) list or restricted list are freely importable (except that some imports can on ly be imported by industrial users). The negative list consists essentially of items banned for religious, secu- rity, or luxury consumption reasons; capital and con- sumer goods banned temporarily for protective reasons; and intermediate goods used mainly in the production of capital and consumer goods banned for protective rea- sons.3 The restricted list of imports consists of three categories: (1) 29 items or categories of goods import- able only by the public sector; (2) 50 items or categories importable only from specified sources under credits, barter trade, loans, or the U.S. P.L. 480 program; and (3) consumer items (arms and ammun i t ion, bu t te r, condensed, preserved, and powdered m i l k, m i lk food for infants, malted milk, and Ovaltine or similar products) subject to quantitative restrictions. Imports of some items on the negative list are permitted under certain circumstances, principally by export industries or under the personal baggage scheme. All imports require licenses, except goods imported by the Central Govern- ment for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land routes from Afghanistan and the Islamic Republic of Iran, and certain other items permitted under a M in is try of Commerce Notification. Licenses are issued on the basis of notification by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports.4 Generally, licenses remain valid for 12 months but when machinery is specifically manufac tured, li- censes can be obtained with a validity period of up to Effective Ju ly 1, 1983 the 1983/84 IPO ins t i tu ted a basic change in the import regime, from a positive list system to a negative list system. 3Some categories of currently prohibited imports Tall outside these categories (i.e., some prohibited items are not produced in Pakistan and they do not fit into the category of goods banned for religious, security, or luxu ry consumption reasons). 4Licensing restrictions are applicable to arms and ammun i t ion, m i lk products, and Ovaltine. Items covered by licensing ce i l ings amount to about 115 percent of the value of imports in 1982/83 (July-June). PAKISTAN 24 months. Licenses for imports are subject to a fee of 2 percent of the value of the license, payable at the time of issue. The import regime is subject to certain other supple- mentary qualifications, the most important of which are as follows: (1) Imports from Israel and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports of goods originating in these countries but shipped from third countries. The private sector can import from India 40 specified items through the TCP. Imports of other nonprohibited goods from India (including goods of Indian origin from a third country) are allowed only for the public sector. (2) Dates may be imported only from Iraq. (3) Special provisions exist for the import by export industries of items on the restricted (tied) list from nontied sources and items on the negative list. Machinery on the negative list may also be imported by nonexporting industries up to specified amoun ts. (4) Private sector importers, other than those importing goods for personal use, who apply for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 20,000 or more, must be members of approved trade organizations. (5) The m ax imum c & f values for which licenses for the import of machinery and m i ll work can be issued against various sources of f inanc ing to different categories are (a) up to PRs 2.5 million, for commercial importers, subject to value restrictions of PRs 0.25 million a un it of machin- ery or spares; (b) up to PRs 30 m i l l ion, for new units invo lv ing a total capital outlay of PRs 60 million and not fa l l ing w i th in the restricted list of industries (i.e., those wh ich are permitted to be set up without sanction of any government agency); (c) up to PRs 2.5 m i l l ion, for new un i ts not covered by (b) above; (d) up to PRs 30 million, for expansion of existing un i ts not fa l l ing w i th in the restricted list of industries; (e) up to PRs 2.5 million, for expansion of existing units not covered by (d) above; and (f) up to PRs 5 m i l l ion, for licenses for balancing, modernization, and replacement of a un i t. Procurement of plant and equ ipment of a higher value is effected by the financing institutions, with the approval of the Ministry of Industry. Except for imports of books, journals, periodicals, and magazines, irrevocable letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports. In principle, such letters of credit have to be opened within 60 days after registration of the license w i th the State Bank for private and public sector imports, or in the case of imports under barter agreements w i th in such period as may be specified in related official Public Notices. For imports under tied loans or credits, which require that the contract be approved by the Economic Affa irs Division or another specified agency, licenses for both private and public sector imports remain valid for the opening of a letter of credit for 30 days after final approval of the contract. Oil companies and refineries are free to open letters of credit for the import of crude oil and petroleum products within the validity period of the underlying license. Remit- tances are not normally permitted before shipping docu- ments are received, but in special cases, e.g., machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN paid to foreign manufacturers, the State Bank may authorize advance payments for a part of the va lue of the goods. Authorized dealers may also make advance remittances, without prior approval of the State Bank of Pakistan, for imports of books, magazines, and jou rna ls by commercial importers. No payments are permitted for goods or ig ina t ing in or consigned from Israel or South Afr ica. W i th specified exceptions,5 the State Bank requires banks to take m in imum margins against import letters of credit at the following rates: 25 percent for m i lk and cream (including baby food), butter, and indus tr ial materials other than those specified elsewhere; and 35 percent for synthetic yarn and all items not listed above. Imports by the TCP are exempt from the margin requirements on import letters of credit. However, domestic letters of credit opened in favor of the TCP in relation to the import of any commodities through the TCP (except b leach ing powder and imports under the Raw Material Rep len ish- ment (RMR) Scheme) are subject to the same m in imum margin requirements as are prescribed for import letters of credit for these commodities. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to Israel or South A f r ica. Authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remit- tances in accordance w i th the regu la t ions. Certain remittances of a personal nature are subject to annual quotas, but applications in excess of the quotas may be approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remit- tances by Pakistani nationals to their families abroad require special authorization. Payments for invisibles connected w i th imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded to the underlying trade transaction. Except w i th respect to certain aid shipments, transport insurance must be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. Commissions, brokerage, or other trade charges paid to foreign import- ers or agents by Pakistani exporters are generally l im i ted to a maximum of 5 percent of the invoice value, except Industrial raw materials imported by indu s t r ial or commercial users, industrial machinery ( inc lud ing all capital goods but exc lud ing consumer durables), agricultural machinery and components and spares of such machinery, raw materials used by iron, steel, and shipbreaking industries, all raw materials imported by manu fac tu re rs of electrical equipment, capital goods and engineering goods ( inc lud ing cycles and agricultural imp lemen ts), chassis of trucks, buses, jeeps in completely knocked-down cond i t ion, construction and eng ineer ing equipment, medicines, drugs, and medical and surgical equ ipm ent and appliances, pharmaceutical raw materials, med ic inal herbs and crude drugs, X-ray f i lms, artificial l imbs and hearing aids and parts thereof, raw materials by manufac turers of fertilizers and pesticides, fer t i l izers and pesticides, raw materials for the vegetable and ed ib le oil indu s t ry, crude oil and petroleum products, newspr in t, vegetable seeds, onions, tea, books, magazines, journals and periodicals, secondhand c lo th ing, raw ju te, ju te bags, cement, items on the tied l is t, imports under barter, pulses, raw materials against import licenses issued und er the Export Performance (RMR) Scheme, and motorcycles and motor scooters and auto-rickshaws (completely knocked-down condition), by firms which have been given sanction for "progressive" m anu f a c tu re u n d er the deletion program. 372 for cotton, rice, and cement, for wh ich separate regula- tions app ly. The rem i t tance of d iv idends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the inves tment was made w i th the Government's ap- proval. Profits of branches of foreign companies may be remitted freely to the ir head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pakistani income tax au thor i t ies. On an administrative basis, the State Bank approves an exchange allocation of US$1,000 a person every two years for private travel irrespective of the number of days spent abroad;6 this allocation can be used in installments. In addition to this quo ta each traveler is allowed US$50 a trip. Additional exchange for bus iness travel, medical treatment, educa- tion, and sponsored cu l tu ral trips may be granted on an ind iv idu al basis. S tudent maintenance allowances for s tudy abroad range from US$4,199 to US$6,843 de- pending on region. Student allowances can be drawn through authorized dealers w i thout requiring State Bank approval. Allowances for professional t ra in ing abroad range from US$750 a mon th for jun ior executives to US$1,200 a mon th for senior executives. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia and other M idd le Eastern countries. Exporters of goods w i th annu al export earnings in excess of PRs 2.5 million and exporters of services in excess of PRs 0.25 million are entitled to a renewable one-year blanket permission for the purchase of travel tickets and travel exchange of US$130 a day up to US$3,900 for each business trip. Foreigners leaving Pakistan w i th in six months from the date of the ir arrival in Pakistan may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amoun ts they brought in and PRs 100 a person in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for Afghan is tan may take out any amount of A fghan currency. Na t iona ls working abroad who visit Pakistan may retain for three mon ths the foreign ex- change they brought in. When leaving Pakistan, within three mon ths from the date of arrival, they may take with them the unspent balance of foreign exchange (including foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of US$50 a person). Larger amoun ts of foreign currency notes can be taken out if the currency notes were declared on entry. Na t iona ls whose stay in Pakistan exceeds three months may take out foreign exchange, inc lud ing foreign cur- rency notes up to a value of US$50 a person, not exceeding US$500 a f am i ly, provided these amounts were deposited by them w i th an authorized dealer immediately on arrival in Pakistan. Residents traveling to other foreign des t ina t ions may take out PRs 100 a person in Pakistan currency and any amount in foreign currency notes and traveler's checks sold by authorized banks under general au thor i ty delegated to them or under permission issued by the State Bank. Foreigners may make f am i ly remittances of up to US$750 a month from the ir net income in Pakistan. 6The allowances for travel to I n d i a, Bang ladesh, and Afghanistan are less. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities to any destination and all exports to Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited.7 Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. However, certain specified exports are subject to export quotas (for example, maize, gram, camels, and split gram), quality controls (such as batteries, electric bulbs and appliances, and oil cakes), or m in imum export prices (such as hand-knotted carpets up to 96 knots and certain varieties of onyx blocks). The Cotton Export Corporation (CECP) has a monopoly over exports of cotton although private exporters may act as its agents; rice is exported through the Rice Export Corporation (RECP), and cement through the State Cement Corpora- tion. Chemical fertilizers and some chemicals may be exported only by the TCP or other public sector agencies. Goods consigned to India can be exported only by public sector agencies. The State Bank requires a declaration by the exporter that payment will be received in accordance w i th the prescribed method and within the prescribed period of time except for goods manufactured in the export processing zones. The authorized dealer certifies the export form for shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds w i th in four months of shipment, although the State Bank may allow an extension of this period. Exporters may, however, w i th the prior approval by the State Bank, grant deferred payment terms. The surrender of A fghan currency accruing from exports to Afghan is tan is not required. Export financing at concessional rates is provided for all exports (except cotton,8 wool, rice, hides and sk ins, mutton and beef, wheat, and wet blue leather) based on irrevocable letters of credit or firm export orders on a case-by-case basis under Part I of the Export Finance Scheme,9 or, alternatively, on the basis of the previous year's export performance of the exporter as advance limit on a revolving basis under Part II of the scheme. Fiscal rebates are paid on the f .o .b. value of cotton textile exports, engineering goods, and other exports as follows: gray cloth (5 percent); finished cloth, made-up textiles containing at least 50 percent cotton by we igh t, acetate yarn, leather goods, hand-knotted carpets, and canvas footwear (7.5 percent), engineering goods (in- cluding domestically produced engineering goods sup- plied locally against international tender), surgical in- struments, sporting goods, and cutlery (12.5 percent). Fifty-five percent of income derived from exports (except those of raw cotton and such other goods that may be specified from time to time by the Central Board 7Prohibited exports inc lude ferrous and nonferrous metals (exc lud- ing iron and steel manufactured goods), edible oils, g ra ins, da iry products, animal fats, beef, mu t ton, timber, certain hides and sk ins, pulses and beans, wet blue leather made from cowhides and ca l fh ide s, wheat bran, wheat s traw, and charcoal. 8Export finance is allowed against export of cotton through the CECP. 9Under specified conditions authorized dealers may grant conces- sional finance w i thout State Bank approval and w i thout an irrevocable letter of credit or firm export order. PAKISTAN of Revenue) is exempt from tax. Industrial units estab- lished under the Pay-As-You-Earn Scheme are permitted to utilize up to 50 percent of the f .o .b. value of exports for the servicing of suppliers' credit on imports of plant and mach inery. Export duties are levied on staple cotton, oil cakes, molasses, semitanned hides and skins, crushed bones, and onyx blocks. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived from invis- ibles must be surrendered w i th in three months. Travelers may bring in PRs 100 in Pakistan currency notes a person and Rs 5 in coin that is legal tender in India. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes and coin. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage industrial development in Pakistan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who, with the approval of the Government, may start any industry in the private sector w i thout conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is expected, however, that local rupee expenditure will ordinarily be met from local equity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established after September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits reinvested in approved indus- trial projects w i th the sanction of the Government may be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. (3) Appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatria- tion facilities do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange, unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1, 1954. Guaran- tees provide for ju st and fair compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the investment in the event of nationalization of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan; the principal in such transac- tions can be repatriated at any t ime, but the prize funds are treated as savings for the purpose of exchange control regulations on outward transfers. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of foreign securities by Pakistani residents requires approval by the State Bank. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depend- ing upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country to wh ich the transfer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresidents for purposes of transfer of securities. 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN General permission has been given in connection w i th the issue, sale, or transfer of Pakistan securities, exclud- ing shares of public or private limited companies, in favor of nonresidents, provided that the securities are registered at the address in Pakistan of the purchaser and investment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of capital and return. Pakistan securities held by nonresi- dents may be transferred to other nonresidents against payment abroad, subject to the same terms and condi- tions as those applicable to the transferor. A general permission has also been issued a l low ing foreign nation- als temporarily resident in Pakistan to make inves tmen ts in units of the National Investment Trus t, subject to certain stipulations. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Proceeds accruing from the l iqu ida t ion of nonresident capital assets that are not covered by repatriation arrangements must be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to ap- proval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved government securities payable in Pakistan rupees or placed as time deposits with banks. A general permission allows Pakistani nationals resi- dent abroad to acquire securities in Pakistan by remit- tance of foreign exchange or by debiting the ir nonresi- dent accounts in Pakistan; dividends or interest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, may be transferred abroad, provided that these securities were held for no less than one year. Pakistani nationals require the prior approval of the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and the liquidation proceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. Gold The export and import of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank. Such permission is normally not granted. However, under a special scheme, jewelry manufacturers are allowed to import gold for the purpose of manu fac tu r ing jewelry for export. Banks incorporated in Pakistan are not permitted to engage in purchases or sales of bullion whether in or outside Pakistan. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement February 19. Foreign exchange cover fac i l i t ies were extended to interest payments on loans repayable in foreign currency and contracted by companies in Pakis- tan with State Bank approval. Previously, forward cover was available only for principal repayment (F .E. Circu- lar No. 22/83). Prescription of Currency February 6. Pakistan and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea concluded a one-year barter agree- ment providing for exchange of specified goods between the two countries up to a value of DM 25 m i l l ion. All payment documents for transactions under the agreement were to be drawn up in deutsche mark (DM) and all 374 transactions channeled through a special nonconvertible DM account (F.E. Circular No. 38/83). April 4. A one-year commodity exchange agreement was concluded between Pakistan and the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina. All payment documents were to be drawn up in U .S. dollars and all transactions under the agreement to be channeled through a special nonconvert- ible U .S. dollar account. The agreement provided for the exchange of US$16.0 million worth of goods (F.E. Circular No. 87/83). April 16. A one-year commodity exchange agreement was concluded between Pakistan and Poland; all pay- ment documents were to be drawn up in U .S. dollars and all transactions channeled through nonconvertible U .S. dollar accounts (F.E. Circular No. 51/83). April 20. Pakistan and Czechoslovakia entered into an agreement for the period through the end of 1984 for the exchange of specified goods between the two countries. All payment documents for transactions under the agreement were to be drawn up in U .S. dollars and all transactions channeled through a special nonconvert- ible U .S. dollar account (F.E. Circular No. 41/83). April 26. Pakistan and the U .S .S .R. concluded an agreement covering calendar year 1983 for exchange of specified goods between the two countries. All payment documents were to be drawn up in U .S. dollars and all the transactions channeled through a special nonconvert- ible U .S. dollar account (F.E. Circular No. 45/83). Imports and Import Payments January 6. The va l id i ty of the barter agreement between Pakistan and Czechoslovakia dated May 17, 1981 was extended to April 30, 1983 in respect of the opening letters of credit, and to J u ly 31, 1983 for completing shipments (F.E. Circular No. 2/83). January 9. The va l id i ty of the commodity exchange arrangement between the Trading Corporation of Pakis- tan and Sukab (of Sweden) was extended to February 28, 1983 for opening letters of credit and to May 31, 1983 for completing shipments (F .E. Circular No. 3/83). January 9. The va l id i ty of the barter agreement between Pakistan and Bulgaria dated December 17, 1981 was extended to March 31, 1983 for opening letters of credit and to June 31, 1983 for completing shipments (F.E. Circular No. 4/83). January 15. The m in imum margin requirements for opening letters of credit for the import of industrial raw materials by manufac turers were w i thdrawn (BCD Cir- cu lar No. 3/83). January 18. The validity of the barter agreement of June 24, 1981 between Pakistan and the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina was extended to June 30, 1983 for opening letters of credit and September 30, 1983 for completing shipments (F.E. Circular No. 9/83). January 27. The validity of the barter agreement dated September 29, 1980 between Pakistan and the Democratic Republic of Korea was extended to March 31, 1983 for opening letters of credit and to June 30, 1983 for completing shipments (F.E. Circular No. 14/83). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution January 27. The va l id i ty of the barter protocol dated May 14, 1982 between Pakistan and the U .S .S .R. on mu tual deliveries of goods between Pakistan and the U.S.S.R. was extended to March 31, 1983 for open ing letters of credit and J u ne 30, 1983 for comp le t ing shipments (F.E. C ircu lar No. 15/83). February 24. A special barter agreement was con- cluded between Pakistan and Czechoslovakia, p rov id ing for opening letters of credit u n t il September 30, 1983 and for completing sh ipmen ts u n t il December 31, 1983 (F.E. Circular No. 33/83). February 27. The va l id i ty of the commod i ty ex- change arrangement between the Trading Corporation of Pakistan and Sukab was extended to December 31, 1984 for opening letters of credit and to March 3 1 , 1 9 85 for completing sh ipmen ts. In add i t ion, the c e i l ing on trade each way was increased to US$47.6 m i l l i on (F .E. Circular No. 23/83). February 28. A commodity exchange agreement was concluded between Pakistan and Bu lg a r ia for the ex- change of goods between the two coun t r ies up to a v a l ue of US$36.0 m i l l ion each way. The protocol was to remain valid u n t il February 29, 1984 (F .E. C i rcu lar No. 29/83). March 17. The va l id i ty of the barter agreement dated December 4, 1980 between Pakistan and Poland was extended to J u ne 30, 1983 for open ing letters of credit and to September 30, 1983 for comp le t ing sh ipm en ts (F.E. Circular No. 28/83). April 4. A one-year commod i ty exchange agreement was concluded between Pak is tan and the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina. All payment documen ts were to be drawn up in U .S. do l lars and a ll t ransac t ions channe led through a special nonconver t ib le U .S. do l lar accoun t. The agreement provided for the exchange of US$16.0 million worth of goods (F.E. Circular No. 87/83). April 10. The requ i rement for m a n u f a c t u r e rs impo r t- ing indus t r ial raw ma te r ia ls to produce an import l icense for a specified qu an t i ty was wa ived (BCD C i r cu l ar No. 12/83). April 12. The va l id i ty of the barter agreement dated December 17, 1981 between Pak is tan and Bu lg a r ia was extended to J u ne 30, 1983 for open ing letters of credit and to September 30, 1983 for comp le t ing sh ipm en ts (F.E. C ircu lar No. 34/83). April 12. The va l id i ty of the barter agreement dated May 14, 1982 between Pak is tan and the U .S .S .R was extended to J u ne 30, 1983 for open ing le t ters of cred it and to September 30, 1983 for comp le t ing sh ipm en ts (F.E. C ircu lar No. 35/83). April 20. Pakistan and Czechoslovakia entered in to an agreement for the period th rough the end of 1984 for the exchange of specified goods between the two countries. All payment documen ts were to be d rawn up in U .S. dollars and all transac t ions channe led th rough a special nonconver t ib le U .S. do l lar account (F .E. C i rcu- lar No. 41/83). May 7. The va l id i ty of the barter agreement dated April 15, 1982 between Pak is tan and the People's PAKISTAN R epub l ic of Ch ina was extended to October 15, 1983 for open ing letters of credit and to January 15, 1984 for comp l e t ing sh ipmen ts (F.E. C i rcu lar No. 40/83). May 19. The v a l i d i ty of the barter agreement of May 17, 1981 between Pak is tan and Czechoslovakia was ex tended to September 30, 1983 for open ing letters of credit and to December 31, 1983 for completing ship- men ts (F .E. C i rcu lar No. 42/83). June 13. The sw ing l im it und er agreement No. 4 between the T rad ing Corporation of Pak is tan and Sukab was increased from US$3 m i l l i on to US$4 m i l l ion. June 22. Au tho r iza t ion was granted for Pakistanis res id ing abroad to impo rt vehicles (exc lud ing cars) in a comp le te ly knocked -down form th rough recognized ve- h i c le assemb l ing u n i ts in both the pub l ic and private sectors, on cond i t ion of payment of cost and f re ight in fore ign exchange (F .E. C i rcu lar No. 52/83). June 25. The commod i ty exchange agreement (No. 8) between Pakistan and the Democratic People's R epub l ic of Korea was te rm ina ted w i th effect from Ma rch 31, 1983. June 30. W i th a v iew to re lax ing import restrictions and g r a d u a l ly r e l ax ing exchange controls, permission was granted for authorized dealers to perform the fo l low ing f u n c t i o ns w i t h o ut the pr ior approval of the State Bank of Pak is tan: (a) R em it up to PRs 5,000 a year for the ir i n d i v i d u al cus tomers for impo rt of med ic ine s, hea r ing aids, bra i l le watches, and sma ll carts or parts of special gadgets for d isab led persons or l i f e s av ing in s t rumen t s; (b) Open usance le t ters of cred it w i t h o ut any l im i t a t i on of period; (c) Open impo rt le t ters of credit in respect of old ships for sc rapp ing, upon presen ta t ion of documen ta ry evi- dence of sale and con f iden t ial reports on buyer and seller; (d) C e r t i fy Form V VE" re la t ing to export by coun try- c ra ft or motor l a u n ch (F .E. C i r cu l ar No. 56/83). July 1. In a basic change of the import regime from a pos i t ive l i st system to a nega t ive (restricted) l ist system, 148 items or categories were made freely importable. Impo r t a t ion of sugar, nonn i t rogenous fe r t i l ize rs, new s tanda rd ized t ru ck s, buses and l ight commercial vehicles in b u i l t - up and comp l e t e ly knocked -down fo rm, and b idi leaves (except from I n d i a) was opened to the private sector; and 15 items were removed from the tied list. In a d d i t i o n, l i c en s ing res t r ic t ions were l i f t ed on 17 of the 22 con sumer i tems p rev iou s ly subject to quan t i ta t ive restric- t ion s. Besides, the v a l ue c e i l i ng on impo r ts of capital e q u i pm e nt and m a ch in e ry for se t t ing up un i ts not f a l l i ng w i t h in the restricted l ist of indus t r ies was raised from PRs 15 m i l l i on to PRs 30 m i l l i o n, and the ce i l ing on inves tment by these indus tr ies was increased from PRs 30 m i l l i on to PRs 60 m i l l i o n. (The va lue ce i l ing on expans ion of e x i s t i ng u n i ts not f a l l i ng w i t h in the re- stricted l i st of indu s t r i es was also raised from PRs 10 m i l l i on to PRs 30 m i l l i o n, thus e l im i n a t i ng the d is t inc t ion between p lant expansion and establishment of new u n i t s .) A to tal of US$100 m i l l i on in o f f ic ial foreign 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN exchange was also made available to certain f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions for release (against rupees) to investors to import capital goods for approved projects. July 6. The commodity exchange agreement between Pakistan and the People's Republic of Ch ina (No. 10) was terminated w i th effect from June 30, 1983. July 11. The va l id i ty of the barter agreement of December 17, 1981 between Pakistan and Bu lgar ia was extended to September 30, 1983 for opening letters of credit and to December 31, 1983 for completing ship- ments (F.E. Circular No. 58/83). August 18. The va l id i ty of the special barter deal No. 19 dated February 24, 1983 between Pakistan and Czechoslovakia was extended to March 31, 1984 for opening letters of credit and to June 30, 1984 for completing shipments (F.E. Circular No. 67/83). September 15. A total of 70 items were removed from the negative import list, of wh ich 16 were transferred to the list of items importable on ly from specified sources, 17 were placed on the l ist of items importable on ly by the pub l ic sector, and the rema in ing 37 were made freely importable. In add i t ion, an amendment to the 1983/84 IPO was issued c la r i fy ing the status of the positive import l is t, stating that th is l ist was for ind ica t ive purposes on ly. September 15. An add i t ional sum of US$100 m i l l i on of off ic ial foreign exchange was made ava i lab le to certain f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions for release (against rupees) to investors to import capital goods for approved projects. September 26. The exemption from m i n im um ma rg in requirements on opening letters of credit for imports of industrial raw materials was made applicable to all importers, whe ther or not imports were under indu s t r ial or commercial licenses. Previously, th is exemp t ion was only available to imports of indus tr ial raw ma ter ia ls by manufac turers (BCD Circular No. 23/83). October 10. The va l id i ty of the barter agreement dated May 17, 1981 between Pakistan and Czechoslova- kia was extended to December 31, 1983 for opening letters of credit and to March 31, 1984 for comp le t ing shipments (F.E. Circular No. 93/83). October 18. The va l id i ty of the barter agreement dated December 17, 1981 between Pakistan and Bulgaria was extended to December 31, 1983 for opening letters of credit and to March 31, 1984 for comp le t ing ship- ments (F.E. Circular No. 97/83). October 23. A short-term credit agreement was con- cluded between the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. and M/S Kemira of Finland (F.E. C i rcu lar No. 99/83). October 31. The l im i ts on the importation of books, magazines, and newspapers w i thout import license and for personal use was increased from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 a year for individuals (with an increase also in the l im it for such imports of newspapers from Rs 2,500 to Rs 5,000), and from Rs 6,000 to Rs 20,000 a year for professionals and specialized organizations. The l im it on the importation of braille books was fixed at Rs 20,000 a year (F.E. Circular No. 101/83). 376 November 1. The va l id i ty of the barter agreement dated April 15, 1982 between Pakistan and the People's Repub l ic of China was extended to April 30, 1984 for opening letters of credit and to J u ly 30, 1984 for comp le t ing sh ipmen ts (F.E. Circular No. 104/83). November 13. Permission was granted for authorized dealers to make repayments of principal and interest in respect of suppliers' credits w i thout State Bank approval for each ind iv idu al remittance, provided that the pro- gram of repayment and terms of suppliers' credit had already been approved by the State Bank (F.E. Circular No. 107/83). November 14. Permission was granted for authorized dealers to allow advance remittances against import licenses w i thout prior State Bank approval for imports of books, magazines, and jou rna ls by commercial import- ers (F.E. C ircu lar No. 108/83). December 4. The va l id i ty period of the commodity exchange arrangement dated May 17, 1981 between Pakistan and Czechoslovakia was extended to June 30, 1984 for completing shipments (F.E. Circular No. 116/83). December 6. On ions were made removed from the negative l is t. December 22. The v a l id i ty period of the barter agreement dated April 26, 1983 between Pakistan and the U .S .S .R was extended to March 31, 1984 for open ing letters of credit and to June 1984 for completing sh ipmen ts (F.E. C ircu lar No. 118/83). importable and Payments for Invisibles January 17. Au thor ized dealers were empowered to e f fec t, w i thout prior approval of the State Bank of Pak is tan, remittances for membersh ip fees in educa- t iona l, techn ica l, professional, and sc ien t if ic ins t i tu t ions up to the equ iva lent of PRs 2,000 a person a year, and for exam ina t ion fees for foreign technical and educa- t ional in s t i tu t ions up to PRs 1,000 a person a year (F.E. C ircu lar No. 8/83). January 18. The procedures for hajj applications under the sponsorship scheme were announced as fol- lows: (a) Sponsors abroad were required to remit in the name of the i n t e n d i ng p i lg r im US$1,988.40 for the cost of the ticket and US$1,200 for other expenses; (b) appli- cations were to be subm i t ted to Pak is tani banks between Janua ry 22, 1983 and February 28, 1983; and (c) the rupee proceeds of the US$1,988.40 at prevailing ex- change rates should be subm i t ted to the hajj office w i th in 14 days of app l ica t ion (F.E. Circular No. 10/83). June 29. Sales of exchange for professional training abroad was l im i ted to US$750 a month for ind iv idual j u n i or executives and US$1,200 a mon th for senior executives (F.E. C ircu lar No. 54/83). July 3. Au tho r iza t ion was granted for those going to s tudy abroad to draw their foreign exchange allowance th rough an authorized bank and purchase tickets without prior approval from the State Bank (F.E. Circular No. 57/83). July 11. Permission was granted for records relating to Pak is tan is undergo ing studies abroad and holding ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution State Bank exchange permits to be transferred to autho- rized dealers for renewal of the exchange fac i l i ty for a further period, on receipt of recommedation from the appropriate Pakistani mission abroad (F.E. Circular No. 59/83). September 28. In a clarification of F.E. Circular No. 57/83, it was announced that persons s tudy ing abroad could draw their foreign exchange allowance from authorized dealers w i thout obtaining approval from the State Bank (F.E. Circular No. 85/83). October 11. Mechanical engineering was added to the list of undergraduate studies for wh ich Pakistanis study- ing abroad could obtain foreign exchange allowance without prior State Bank approval (F.E. Circular No. 94/83). November 8. The foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel was changed from US$45 a person once in two calendar years to US$25 a person for each journey to India, and from US$80 a person once in two calendar years to US$50 a person for each journey to Bangladesh (F.E. Circular No. 105/83). November 13. Permission was granted for authorized dealers to make repayments of principal and interest in respect of suppliers' credits w i thout State Bank approval for each individual remittance, provided that the pro- gram of repayment and terms of suppliers' credit had already been approved by the State Bank (F.E. Circular No. 107/83). November 22. Authorization was granted for travelers to countries other than India, Bangladesh, and Afghan is- tan to draw the permissible exchange allowance (US$1,000) in installments rather than once every two years. In addition, each traveler was allowed an extra sum of US$50 (irrespective of age) for each tr ip, to meet incidental expenses. The foreign exchange allowance of US$30 a person for incidental expenses for other specified categories of travel (name ly, by resident Pakistanis other than those proceeding on off ic ial or business travel; Pakistani students s tudy ing abroad; returning Pakistani residents; foreign nationals settled or working in Pakistan; foreign students s tudy ing in Pakis- tan; and foreign crew members) was also increased to US$50 (F.E. Circular No. 111/83). December 4. The limit on ind iv idual outward fam i ly remittances by foreign nationals was increased from US$500 to US$750 a month (BC Circular No. 113/83). Exports and Export Proceeds January 2. Export of sporting rifles, handguns and shotguns, and accessories and ammun i t ion thereof were legalized. January 6. The validity of the barter agreement dated May 17, 1981 between Pakistan and Czechoslovakia was extended to April 30, 1983 for opening letters of credit and to July 31, 1983 for completing sh ipmen ts (F.E. Circular No. 2/83). January 9. The va l id i ty of the commodity exchange arrangement between the Trading Corporation of Pakis- tan and Sukab (of Sweden) was extended to February 28, PAKISTAN 1983 for opening letters of credit and to May 31, 1983 for completing shipments (F.E. Circular No. 3/83). January 9. The va l id i ty of the barter agreement dated December 17, 1981 between Pakistan and Bulgaria was extended to March 31, 1983 for opening letters of credit and to June 31, 1983 for completing shipments (F.E. Circular No. 4/83). January 18. The va l id i ty of the barter agreement of June 24, 1981 between Pakistan and the People's Republic of China was extended to June 30, 1983 for open ing letters of credit and September 30, 1983 for completing shipments (F.E. Circular No. 9/83). January 27. The validity of the barter agreement dated September 29, 1980 between Pakistan and Demo- cratic Repub l ic of Korea was extended to March 31, 1983 for opening letters of credit and to June 30, 1983 for comp le t ing shipments (F.E. Circular No. 14/83). January 27. The va l id i ty of the barter protocol be- tween Pakistan and the U .S .S .R. dated May 14, 1982 on mu tual deliveries of goods was extended to March 31, 1983 for opening letters of credit and June 30, 1983 for completing shipments (F.E. Circular No. 15/83). January 30. It was decided that the compulsory coverage of exports under the Export Credit Guarantee Scheme (BCD Circular No. 24/82) would not be intro- duced. Instructions regarding dates for introduction of this requirement in BCD Circular No. 1/83 were thus canceled. February 24. A special barter agreement was con- cluded between Pakistan and Czechoslovakia, providing for opening letters of credit u n t il September 30, 1983 and for sh ipmen ts un t il December 31, 1983 (F.E. Circular No. 33/83). February 27. The va l id i ty of the commodity ex- change arrangement between the Trading Corporation of Pakistan and Sukab was extended to December 31, 1984 for opening letters of credit and to March 31, 1985 for completing shipments. In addition, the ceiling on trade each way was increased to US$47.6 m i l l ion (F.E. Circular No. 23/83). February 28. A commodity exchange agreement was concluded between Pakistan and Bulgaria for the ex- change of goods between the two countries up to a value of US$36.0 m i l l ion each way. The protocol was to remain valid un t il February 29, 1984 (F.E. Circular No. 29/83). March 7. Export of in fant formula foods, in fant weaning foods, and food for invalids was legalized. March 17. The va l id i ty of the barter agreement dated December 4, 1980 between Pakistan and Poland was extended to June 30, 1983 for opening letters of credit and to September 30, 1983 for completing shipments (F.E. Circular No. 28/83). April 4. A one-year commodity exchange agreement was entered into between Pakistan and the People's Republic of Ch ina. All payment documents were to be drawn up in U .S. dollars and all transactions channeled through a special nonconvertible U.S. dollar account. 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN The agreement provided for the exchange of US$16.0 million worth of goods (F.E. Circular No. 87/83). April 12. The validity of the barter agreement dated December 17, 1981 between Pakistan and Bulgaria was extended to June 30, 1983 for opening letters of credit and to September 30, 1983 for completing shipments (F.E. Circular No. 34/83). April 12. The validity of the barter agreement dated May 14, 1982 between Pakistan and the U .S .S .R. was extended to June 30, 1983 for opening letters of credit and to September 30, 1983 for completing sh ipmen ts (F.E. Circular No. 35/83). April 20. The Governments of Pakistan and Czecho- slovakia entered into an agreement for the period through the end of 1984 for the exchange of goods, specified in the schedules, between the two countries. All payment documents were to be drawn up in U .S. dollars and all transactions channeled through a special nonconvertible U.S. dollar account (F.E. Circular No. 41/83). April 26. Pakistan and the U .S .S .R. concluded an agreement covering calendar year 1983 for exchange of specified goods between the two countries. All payment documents were to be drawn up in U .S. dollars and all the transactions channeled through a special nonconvert- ible U.S. dollar account (F.E. Circular No. 45/83). May 7. The validity of the barter agreement dated April 15, 1982 between Pakistan and the People's Republic of China was extended to October 15, 1983 for opening letters of credit and to Janua ry 15, 1984 for completing shipments (F.E. Circular No. 40/83). May 12. The compensatory rebates on exports of cotton yarn were reduced from 7!/2 percent to 41/> percent. May 19. The validity of the barter agreement of May 17, 1981 between Pakistan and Czechoslovakia was extended to September 30, 1983 for opening letters of credit and up to December 31, 1983 for completing shipments (F.E. Circular No. 42/83). June 13. The swing l im it under agreement No. 4 between the Trading Corporation of Pakistan and Sukab was increased from US$3 m i l l ion to US$4 m i l l ion. June 23. Export compensatory rebate at the rate of 4.5 percent of f.o.b. value was allowed for exports of woolen worsted yarn. June 25. The commodity exchange agreement (No. 8) between Pakistan and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea was term ina ted w i th effect from March 31, 1983. June 30. In a relaxation of existing regulations, permission was granted for authorized dealers to remit proceeds of export commission of rebated items at the time of claiming the rebate and, in the case of other items, within three days of receipt of export proceeds (F.E. Circular No. 56/83). July 6. The commodity exchange agreement between Pakistan and the People's Republic of China (No. 10) was terminated w i th effect from September 30, 1983. July 11. The validity of the barter agreement of December 17, 1981 between Pakistan and Bu lgar ia was extended to September 30, 1983 for opening letters of 378 credit and to December 31, 1983 for completing ship- ments (F.E. Circular No. 58/83). July 19. Mu t ton and beef were added to the list of export items ineligible for concessionary export finance (BCD Circular No. 17/83). July 20. Exports of ten additional varieties of vege- tables were legalized. July 20. For the purpose of granting export finance under the Export Finance Scheme, commercial banks were given au thor i ty, on receipt of a wr i t ten request from an exporter and subject to specified conditions, to allow subs t i tu t ion of a firm export order for an export letter of credit w i thout reference to the State Bank of Pakistan (BCD Circular No. 18/83). July 31. Exports of camels were legalized, subject to quo ta. August 18. The va l id i ty of the special barter deal No. 19 dated February 24, 1983 between Pakistan and Czechoslovakia was extended to March 31, 1984 for opening letters of credit and to June 30, 1984 for comp le t ing sh ipmen ts (F.E. Circular No. 67/83). August 29. Compensatory export rebates of 4.5 per- cent were e l im ina ted for cotton and woolen yarn, reduced from 12.5 percent to 7.5 percent for finished leather goods, artificial leather and its products, acetate yarn, canvas footwear, hand-knotted carpets, finished cloth and made-up textiles, zari thread, bleached, dyed, and mercerized cotton thread, baker's yeast, santonin, diogenin aesin and mono ammon ium, glycyrrihizinate, and reduced from 10 percent to 5 percent for gray cloth and bleached thread. August 31. For the f inanc ing of exports of carpets and rugs under Part I of the Export Finance Scheme, a total period of up to 270 days was allowed for repayment, provided sh ipmen ts were made w i th in the 1983/84 f inanc ial year but not later than December 31, 1983. For the purpose of mon i tor ing collection of export proceeds under Part II of the scheme, the two monitoring periods of July —December 1983 and Janua ry — June 1984 were combined. In add i t ion, exporters were required to make exports equal to twice their average daily borrowings du r ing the combined mon i tor ing period, compared with the ex is t ing requirement of three times the average daily borrowings (BCD Circular No. 20/83). September 5. Postshipment finance under Part I of the Export Finance Scheme was extended to exporters against goods shipped for display or sale in international fairs or exh ib i t ions; presentation of a firm export order or irrevocable letter of credit, norma l ly required under the scheme, would not be necessary in these cases (BCD Circular No. 21/83). October 10. The va l id i ty of the barter agreement dated May 17, 1981 between Pakistan and Czechoslova- kia was extended to December 31, 1983 for opening letters of credit and to March 3 1 , 1 9 84 for completing sh ipmen ts (F.E. Circular No. 93/83). October 12. Authorization was granted for exports of snapped battery cells, waste dentures, and waste exposed X-ray f i lm s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution October 18. The validity of the barter agreement dated December 17, 1981 between Pakistan and Bu lgar ia was extended to December 31, 1983 for opening letters of credit and to March 31, 1984 for completing ship- ments (F.E. Circular No. 97/83). October 22. The period of mon i tor ing under Part II of the Export Finance Scheme was increased from six months to one year (BCD Circular No. 24/83). October 22. The penal rate of interest was increased from 6 percent above the bank rate to 10 percent above the bank rate for exporters fa i l ing to effect sh ipmen ts w i th in the period stipulated under Part I of the Export Finance Scheme, or fa l l ing short of performance re- quired under Part II of the scheme (BCD Circular No. 25/83). October 23. A short-term credit agreement was con- cluded between the Trading Corporation of Pak is tan, Ltd. and M/S Kemira of Finland (F.E. C ircu lar No. 99/83). November 1. The va l id i ty of the barter agreement dated April 15, 1982 between Pakistan and the People's Republic of China was extended to April 30, 1984 for opening letters of credit and to J u ly 30, 1984 for completing shipments (F .E. Circular No. 104/83). November 24. Wheat was added to the list of export items ineligible for concessionary export f inance (BCD Circular No. 27/83). December 4. The validity period of the commod i ty exchange arrangement dated May 17, 1981 between Pakistan and Czechoslovakia was extended to June 30, PAKISTAN comp le t ing sh ipmen ts (F .E. Circular 1984 for No. 116/83). December 20. The m a x im um permissible va lue of each cons ignment of samples was increased to PRs 2,500. December 22. The va l id i ty period of the barter agreement dated Apr il 26, 1983 between Pakistan and the U . S . S .R. was extended to March 31, 1984 for opening letters of credit and to June 1984 for completing sh ipmen ts (F .E. C ircu lar No. 118/83). Capital June 29. Au tho r iza t ion was granted for nonresident Pak is tan na t iona ls to repatriate proceeds of principal and capital ga ins on domestic securities provided that such securities were held for not less than one year (F.E. C ircu lar No. 55/83). October 31. In a c lar if ica t ion of regulations govern- ing the opening of foreign currency accounts in Pak is tan, it was specified that the fac i l i ty was not available to f i rm s, corporations, and charitable bodies owned by persons not e l ig ib le to open such accounts (F .E. Circular No. 102/83). November 13. Permission was granted for authorized dealers to make repayments of principal and interest in respect of supp l iers' credits and plant and machinery imported under the PAYE scheme w i thout State Bank approval for each ind iv idu al remittance, provided that the program of repayment and terms of suppliers' credit had already been approved by the State Bank (F .E. C ircu lar No. 107/83). 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Panama is the Panaman ian Balboa, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar at B 1 - US$1. The U .S. dollar is legal tender and circulates freely in Panama; locally issued currency is represented by balboa coin and several commemorative coins. Commercial banks quote buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. On November 26, 1946 Panama no t if ied the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2 , 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Off ice, a semiautonomous in s t i tu t ion of the Panamanian Governmen t. The Price Regu la t ion Office is responsible for the imp lemen ta t ion of restric- tions on imports of commodities that compete w i th national production and on certain exports. The M in is t ry of Commerce and Industry determines the import quo tas for commodities listed in trade agreements, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Deve lopmen t, jo in t ly w i th the Price Regulation Off ice, those for certain agricultural commodities. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Quotas are imposed on imports of certain commodities competing w i th present or prospective domestic produc- tion; some of these are not being licensed. Import licensing also applies to imports of various foods tu f fs. Other imports are free. Imports by the pub l ic sector, however, are subject to special requ i remen ts. Paymen ts abroad may be made f ree ly. In addition to import d u t y, a tax of 7.5 percent of the f .o .b. value is levied on private sector imports of all dutiable goods other than specified pharmaceutical prod- ucts and foods tuffs, for wh ich the rate is 2.5 percent and 3.5 percent, respectively; books are exemp t. Most imports are also subject to a tax of 5 percent calculated on the sum of the c . i . f. va lue and all other import taxes and charges; among the exemptions are fu e l s, lub r ican ts, and related products, as well as foods tu f fs, specified med ic inal and pharmaceu t ical p roduc ts, and imports into the Free Zone. Exports and Export Proceeds Export taxes are lev ied on gold, s i lve r, p l a t inum, manganese, and other m ine ra l s, suga r, bananas, coco- n u t s, scrap me ta ls, pear ls, an imal w ax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubbe r. Exports of certain foods tuffs, f irearms, and ammun i t ion are proh ib i ted. Certain non- trad i t ional exports are e l ig ib le for tax credit certificates. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Paymen ts for and proceeds from inv i s ib les are not restricted. A travel tax of 4 percent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on such tickets pur- chased for travelers s tar t ing the ir tr ip in Panama. Capital No exchange control requ i remen ts are imposed on cap i tal receipts or paymen ts by res iden ts or nonresidents. Several fore ign-con tro l led banks are au thor ized to con- duct bu s ine ss on ly w i th non res iden ts. Gold Panama has issued two commemorative gold coins w i th face va lues of B 100 and B 500, wh i ch are legal tender but do not c i rcu la te. Res iden ts may free ly hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form w i th res iden ts or nonresidents at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than j ew e l ry carried as personal effects by travelers are sub ject to l icense if made by residents other than the monetary au tho r i t ie s; import licenses are issued free ly by the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Indu s t ry, and export licenses are granted by the M in i s t ry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unwo rked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export du ty of 1 percent ad va lorem, and exports of gold coin (other than U . S. co ins, wh ich are exemp t) to a du ty of 0.5 percent. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments February I. Quotas on a numb er of import items were replaced by t a r i f f s. The process of replacing quotas w i th import ta r i f fs con t inued th rough the year and affected about 200 ta r i ff i tems, in c lud ing shoes and a range of tex t i le produc ts. 380 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Papua New Guinea is the Papua New Guinea Kina. The exchange rate of the kina in terms of the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, is adjusted daily on the basis of its relationship to a weighted basket of currencies representing Papua New Gu inea's major trading partners. On December 30, 1983 the off ic ial buying and selling rates quoted by the Bank of Papua New Guinea for the U .S. dollar were US$1.1430 and US$1.1414, respectively, per K 1. The commercial banks, the only authorized foreign exchange dealers, publish rates for all current transactions w i th their customers, w i th in a max imum spread of 2 percent between buy ing and selling. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Papua New Guinea formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 4, 1975. Administration of Control Foreign exchange control is administered by the Bank of Papua New Guinea under the Central Bank ing (Foreign Exchange and Gold) Regu la t ions, Chapter 138. Overall policy is determined by the Government with the advice of the Bank of Papua New Guinea and the Ministry of Finance. The Bank of Papua New Guinea has delegated considerable powers to the commercial banks operating in Papua New Gu inea, which have been appointed authorized dealers in foreign exchange and gold. Export licensing is administered by the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Prescription of Currency Contractual commitments, wh ich are expressed in a foreign currency, to persons resident outside Papua New Guinea must be met by payments in foreign cu r rency .! Export proceeds may be received in any foreign currency or in kina from an overseas bank 's account in Papua New Guinea. Nonresident Accounts The Bank of Papua New Guinea controls all credits to nonresident bank accounts; funds credited to such ac- counts may be w i thdrawn w i thout fur ther fo rma l i ty. Only in exceptional circumstances is approval given for a nonresident bank account to be denominated in a foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a limited number of goods are restricted for health, security, and protective reasons. Certain import items are subject to quotas for reasons of domestic protection; quotas are adjusted quarterly, reflecting the extent to which local production can meet domestic demand. 'Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the k i n a. There are no import l icens ing requ iremen ts. Au tho- rized dealers have powers to approve most transactions without referring to the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Norma l ly import paymen ts should be settled w i th in 90 days of the arrival of the goods in the coun t ry; approval for payment on extended credit terms is usua l ly given for items such as capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Approval is readily g iven for most paymen ts for inv is ib les, provided that supporting documentation can be produced. The remittance overseas of life insurance premiums on new policies written after December 31, 1975 in the names of permanent residents is not permitted. Applications for foreign exchange for foreign travel in excess of the equivalent of K 4,000 an adult a year for tour ist travel and K 2,000 for each bus iness tr ip are referred to the Bank of Papua New Gu inea for consideration. Travelers may not take or send out of Papua New Gu inea domestic currency in excess of K 200 in notes and K 5 in co in; however, domes t ic coins issued for num isma t ic purposes may be taken out freely. Overseas v is i tors are free to take out any currency wh ich they had b rought in and recorded on arr iva l. Exports and Export Proceeds Res iden ts of Papua New Gu inea may export goods w i thout exchange control fo rma l i ty on condition that they comply with the terms of the general authority issued by the Bank of Papua New Gu inea. The essential conditions of th is au tho r i ty are that payment for goods exported is received w i th in six months of the date of export and that the proceeds are sold to an au thor ized dealer in Papua New Gu inea. When exporters are not in a position to comply w i th the conditions of the general au tho r i ty, they mu st app ly to the Bank for a specific au tho r i ty. No au tho r i ty is needed for certain categories of goods, inc lud ing sundry items such as passengers' personal e f fec ts. Export licenses are requ ired for all types of goods under the Exports (Control and Va lua- t ion) Ac t. Special provisions are in force for the export of prescribed goods ( logs, pearls, t u na f i sh, and wood ch ips ). Specified commod i t ies are subject to export levies. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is requ ired on ly for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by sale to an authorized dealer in Papua New Gu in e a. Overseas visitors may br ing in any amount of currency for travel expend i tu re. Capital Ou tward transfers of overseas-owned capital are nor- mally allowed; advance comm i tmen ts, however, are g iven on ly in exceptional c i rcums tances. New invest- 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAPUA NEW GUINEA ment outside Papua New Guinea by permanent residents and by companies and other organizations operating in Papua New Guinea is subject to certain l im i ta t ions. When an investment is for portfolio reasons, the amount which may be invested in a 12-month period is limited to K 10,000 a person. Investment may only be in the form of marketable company securities and real estate. The approval of the Bank of Papua New Gu inea is needed for the acquisition and disposal of foreign securities by permanent residents.2 Persons who have been declared to be temporary residents by an authorized dealer or the Bank of Papua New Guinea may repatriate their surplus earnings w i thout l im i t. Prior clearance from the tax authorities may be required for these transactions. Approval by the Bank of Papua New Gu inea is required for all new or increased foreign inves tment in Papua New Guinea. In most cases the Bank of Papua New Guinea refers such applications to the M in is t ry of Finance. Foreign investments other than those in bank- foreign securities are de f ined in the Central B a n k i ng Act as inc lud ing deposits in overseas bank accounts and debts due by persons outside Papua New Gu inea. ing and insurance are also subject to approval by the Na t ional Inves tment and Development Au tho r i ty. Ap- proval from the Bank of Papua New Guinea is also necessary for the acknowledgment of indebtedness so that a right to receive a payment is conferred on a nonresident. Offshore borrowing by private sector entities in Papua New Gu inea may not exceed the debt/ equ i ty ratio of 3:1. Commercial banks may undertake offshore borrowing for on- lend ing to exporters, provided that no assumption of exchange risk is involved. Gold Under the Central Bank ing (Foreign Exchange and Gold) Regu la t ions, Chapter 138, approval by the Bank of Papua New Gu inea is necessary for the sale, purchase, export, and import of gold. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement March 8. The k ina was devalued by 10 percent against the U .S. dollar, representing a downward adjust- ment of 5.5 percent against the k ina 's basket of currencies. 382 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Paraguay is the Paraguayan Guaran i, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at 0 160 = US$1. Specified invisible pay- ments of the public sector are eligible for foreign exchange at the rate of 0 126 = US$1. All other transactions are settled at seven different rates ranging from 0 126 to 0 230 per US$1, depending on the nature of the transactions. Export proceeds are converted at rates varying between 0 146 and 0 182 per US$1, and imports are settled at 0 160 = US$1, w i th the exception of specified essential imports wh ich are settled at 0 143 = US$1. Foreign exchange receipts by interna- tional organizations are also sold to the Central Bank at the rate of 0 143 = US$1. A tax of 1.5 percent is levied on purchases and sales of exchange in the off ic ial market, except for transactions w i th foreign embassies and diplomats, with meat packing plants, and those relating to investments in Paraguay under ».he terms of Investment Law No. 550/75. Purchases of foreign exchange from exporters are subject to a tax of 2 percent, and a fee of 2 percent is levied on sales of foreign exchange for imports. In addition, banks charge a com- mission of 2 percent on all sales of foreign exchange. Additional selling rates arise from application of taxes of 8 percent on the c . i . f. value of a wide range of consumer goods imported from nonregional countries, 10 percent on outward remittances of profits and d iv i- dends, and 30 percent on outward remittances of interest, royalties, rent, honoraria, commissions, and other income accruing to nonresidents from Paraguayan sources. For interest payments on foreign loans con- tracted by national banks, this tax is applied only to the spread if floating rate loans are involved, and only to 6*/2 percent of interest on fixed-rate loans. There are no forward exchange facilities. The authorized banks are required to sell 30 percent of their daily gross foreign exchange receipts in the official market in specified currencies1 to the Central Bank. The Central Bank charges the authorized banks a commission of 1 percent on its sales of foreign exchange at the official exchange rate. Administration of Control The Central Bank determines foreign exchange policy and supervises, together w i th the Superintendency of Banks, the foreign exchange transactions carried out by banks and exchange houses. Prescription of Currency Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bo l iv ia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, U ruguay, and 'Argentine pesos, Belgian francs, Braz i l ian cruzeiros, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Ne ther lands g u i l- ders, pounds s ter l ing, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. Venezuela are made through accounts wh ich the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned ma in ta in w i th each other, w i th in the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAI A. Clearing takes place every four months but Paraguay, as a relatively less developed coun try, may request special settlement every two mon ths. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities require authoriza- t ion .2 Imports of wheat and wheat flour are effected by the M in is try of Indus try and Commerce. The Central Bank operates a register of importers, consisting of four categories of priority for import goods. All imports are subject to a m in imum f inanc ing term of 120 days and the retention, for a m in imum of 120 days, of prior deposits applied at a rate of 100 percent of value for a list of 1,254 items classified as nonessential, and 200 percent for 976 items classified as luxu ry; 1,305 specified items classi- fied as essential are exempt from the deposit require- ment, and the Central Bank is empowered to grant other exemptions on a case-by-case basis. Imports of a few commodities are p roh ib i ted .3 Advance deposits are not required for pub l ic sector imports, imports by foreign diplomats and by foreign staff of certain international organizations, imports of petroleum and petroleum de- r iva t ives, certain machinery and agricultural equipment, whea t, cement, and printed matter from any source, imports from neighboring countries and U ruguay, im- ports from other LAIA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list (the National List), and certain imports from nonneighboring countries, as speci- fied in Central Bank Resolution No. 148/5. The Central Bank has au thor i ty to grant exemptions on a case-by- case basis. An exchange tax (re car go de cambio) of 8 percent is levied on the c . i . f. value of goods covered by Decree Law No. 27018 when imported from nonregional coun- tries. Surcharges, calculated on the c . i . f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place. An import surcharge of 36 percent applies to most general imports from any source; however, for goods originating in LAIA countries and included in the Paraguayan National List the rate ranges from 3 percent to 30 percent, and for certain other goods from LAIA countries (ma in ly pharmaceuticals in a special l is t), the rate is 8 percent. Fuel derived from petroleum is subject to a surcharge of 15 percent 2These in c lude table w ine in b u l k, natural grape must concentrate, rice in the husk or w i th any degree of processing, gasoline, diesel oil, gas o i l, kerosene, w i re, na i ls, dry cell batteries, and potatoes, garlic, and onions du r ing local harvest seasons. 3These inc lude certain tex t i les and con t inuous forms for use in cash registers and computers. 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (10 percent for neighboring countries and U ruguay ). There is an additional surcharge of 5 percent on imports from all sources of telephone and telegraph equ ipmen t, television receivers, and radios and record players and their parts and accessories. Surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The fo l low ing are the principal imports exempted from the surcharge: whea t, cement, crude petroleum, equ ipment for petroleum exploration and exploitation, agricultural tractors, imports for the Government, imports for religious, charitable, cu l tu ra l, or educational purposes, and imports by foreign diplo- mats and certain international organizations. Agricul- tural and industrial machinery and equ ipment imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, agricultural machinery and equ ipment for the Na t ional Wheat Pro- gram, books and periodicals, and imports for invest- ments under Investment Law No. 550/75 are also exempted. Imports of investment goods and of raw materials for export industries receive exemption on a case-by-case basis. In addition to the above surcharges, a tar iff surcharge is levied on certain imports. On goods that are not exempt, the rate of surcharge is generally 12 percent to 24 percent (8 percent to 16 percent for certain goods subject to LAIA concessions) and the surcharge is levied on the c . i .f. va lue, calculated as the f .o .b. value p lus 10 percent for imports from neighboring countries and Uruguay, or the f.o.b. value plus 20 percent for imports from other countries. Exempt from this additional import du ty are public sector and diplomatic imports, raw materials and equipment for the production of goods that are subject to internal consumption taxes, imports under the Investment Law, and all imported goods taxed under the Internal Consumption Tax Law. Imports are also subject to sales tax ranging from 5 percent to 10 percent, and certain imports are subject to a 15 percent ad valorem levy. There is also a 1 percent tax on general imports and an import du ty at rates of 5, 8, and 12 percent for intermediate goods and raw materials for industry. Imports of specified goods ( inc lud ing television sets and precious metals) may not be financed w i th foreign credit. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval from the Central Bank. This approval is normally granted only for imports of ma- chinery and other capital goods. All imports covered by letters of credit are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Import payments must be made through banks, at the official market rate of exchange. For certain com- modities originating in Argen t ina, Bo l iv ia, Braz i l, and U ruguay, and fa l l ing under the regional trade regime, import payments need not be channeled through banks at the official rate of exchange. As long as proof of payment of the preferential tariff rates for these imports can be presented, payment may be effected w i th the 384 importer's own foreign exchange. Import payments are free from formal restriction, but certain delays arise from t ime to time as a result of the system of releasing foreign exchange to the private commercial banks only on a weekly basis. Payments through the LAIA clearing system are made promptly. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are settled at the rate of 0 160 = US$1, with the exception of government transactions wh ich are effected at a rate of 0 126 = US$ 1. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. There is an ad valorem sales tax of 5 percent on international airline tickets. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and rough beams and some other unprocessed forest products are prohibited, as are ex- ports of rawhides and cement. Beef exports are subject to annual export quotas, and certain other exports require prior authorization in order to ensure adequate supplies for domestic consumption and to meet the needs of domestic industries. All other exports are free from licensing requirements, but some require a certificate issued by the Institute of Technology and Standards, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, or the Ministry of Agriculture and Stock Raising. The proceeds of exports must be collected within 180 days after completion of the banking formalities related to the shipping documents. The foreign exchange must be converted at banks authorized to deal in exchange at the particular exchange rate(s) specified under the prevailing regulations. For all exports the Central Bank establishes m in imum export prices denom- inated in U .S. dollars and export proceeds corresponding either to these prices must be surrendered in the official exchange market; for coffee exports, however, the equ iva lent of 50 percent of the m in imum export price may be retained and used to pay dividends and interest owed to nonresidents and to pay for machinery and equipment imported for the exporter's own use. Advance receipts of export proceeds must also be sold to autho- rized banks. Export taxation is based on a list of assumed export values (aforos) published by the Ministry of Finance. Most exports are subject to taxes, payable in guaranfes, ranging from 1.5 percent to 7.5 percent of the f.o.b. value. There is a tax on exports of soybeans rang ing from approximately 3 percent for cooperatives to nearly 7 percent for other exporters; exports of expellers and soybean f lour are tax exempt. One group of exports is subject to an additional tax of 1.5 percent. Exports of meat products are exempt from export taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements for proceeds from invisibles. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital All inward and outward transfers must be channeled through the authorized banks or exchange houses. Banks may provide foreign exchange at the rate of 0 160 = US$1 for transfers of registered capital, subject to presentation of appropriate documentation. Annual sales of foreign exchange for the amortization of private sector foreign debt is limited in each case to 10 percent of the originally registered external liability. Resident firms, including commercial banks, are prohibited from repa- triating retained earnings, except when substantial hard- ship could be demonstrated. Investment Law No. 550/75 empowers the Government to grant special tax, customs, import surcharge, and advance deposit concessions to proposed investments, provided that these are du ly registered and approved. Capital imported and registered under this law may be retransferred in installments of up to 20 percent from the third year after the beginning of production, in the currency originally imported. Gold Decree-Law No. 18/52 provides that the Central Bank may prescribe the max imum amount of gold and foreign exchange that may be held by residents; this requirement does not apply to amounts held by the Central Bank or by institutions authorized to deal in foreign currencies. In practice, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may freely deal in gold coin, gold bars, and gold leaf with residents and nonresidents. Exports and im- ports of gold in any form other than jewelry by nonbank residents and industrial users require the prior approval of the Central Bank; payments for gold imports by industrial users may be made through authorized banks at the rate of 0 160 = US$1. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments January 24. Primary products imported for use in the production of clothing items were exempted from the prior import deposit requirements. March 6. A regulation was introduced, requiring payments for imports under the system of deferred payments (Regimen de Pagos Diferidos) to be made at the rate of 0 160 = US$1. June 3. Commercial banks were instructed not to open letters of credit for those importers who did not PARAGUAY possess the foreign exchange necessary to settle these external obligations. Exports and Export Proceeds February 4. Authorization was granted for cotton exporters to sell up to 25 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds (based on the m in imum export prices for the various types of cotton) in the unofficial parallel market, with the balance to be split, 50 percent of the balance to be converted at the rate of 0 126 = US$1, and the other 50 percent at the rate of 0 160 = US$1. March 11. Authorization was granted for meat ex- porters to sell their foreign exchange proceeds (based on the relevant m in imum export prices) at the following rates: 75 percent at 0 160 = US$1, and 25 percent at 0 230 = US$1. March 14. Soybean exporters were authorized to convert their foreign exchange earnings (based on a m in imum export price of US$148 a ton) at the following rates: 37.5 percent at 0 126 = US$1; 37.5 percent at 0 160 = US$1; and 25.0 percent at 0 230 = US$1. May 12. A regulation was introduced requiring cotton exporters to sell their exchange proceeds at the rates of 0 126, 0 160, and 0 230 per U.S. dollar in the same proportions as for soybean exporters, that is 37.5 per- cent, 37.5 percent, and 25.0 percent, respectively. In addition, the m in imum export prices for both cotton and soybeans were reduced. May 24. The minimum export prices for the share of cotton proceeds to be sold at the rate of 0 230 = US$1 were reduced. June 3. Authorization was granted for exporters of tung oil, silk, and soybean derivatives to settle their foreign exchange proceeds at the following rates: 75 percent at 0 160 = US$1, and 25 percent at 0 230 = US$1. Proceeds from Invisibles January 1. Authorization was granted for invisible receipts by international organizations to be converted at an average rate of 0 143 = US$1. July 19. Paraguay signed an agreement with Brazil, under which all Itaipu-related payments during the following two years would be denominated in U.S. dol- lars but tied to the purchases of Brazilian exports or the servicing of Paraguayan debt to Brazil. December 28. The above-mentioned agreement be- tween Brazil and Paraguay was canceled. 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Peru is the Peruvian Sol. The exchange rate for the sol is established by the Central Reserve Bank in relation to the U.S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, and is adjusted frequently on the basis of a set of indicators. End-of-month exchange rates are announced in advance, generally for up to three months ahead. Exchange market transactions may also be con- ducted in 14 other currencies, on the basis of their exchange rates in terms of the U .S. dollar in the international marke t .! All exchange transactions must be conducted through the banking system or recognized exchange dealers. All exchange transactions are con- ducted on the basis of two rates: the rate set daily by the Central Reserve Bank (CRB rate, with a commission of up to 0.5 percent on the selling side) and the rate for bank certificates of deposit (CD rate), wh ich fluctuates freely in response to supply and demand. All govern- ment transactions are conducted at the CRB rate. Under existing contracts, the un if ied exchange market selling rate (identical to the CRB rate since April 1982) continues to be used for remittances of petroleum companies, while the CRB rate of the preceding business day is applied in the conversion process of unused and expired ten-day exchange certificates. Banks and dealers operating in the un if ied exchange market are required to limit the spread between their buying and selling rates on any given day to not more than 0.5 percent. On December 31, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S/. 2,265.50 and S/. 2,276.83, respec- tively, per US$1. Banks and nonbank f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions may open foreign exchange demand and time deposit accounts for residents and nonresidents. In addition, banks may issue certificates of deposit denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign currency certificates of deposit must be for amounts not less than US$ 1,000 and have a ma tur i ty of not longer than 360 days. They are freely negotiable both in Peru and abroad and may be used by the holder for making all permitted payments and transfers, inc lud ing import payments. Transactions in foreign currency cer- tificates usually take place at a small but f luc tua t ing premium over the official buy ing and selling rates; in 1983, the differential averaged 1.89 percent. Residents are free to hold abroad their foreign ex- change receipts other than those from exports. If repatri- ated, such exchange may be sold to the bank ing system, or be deposited in foreign currency accounts, or be used to purchase foreign currency certificates of deposit. 'Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds s ter l ing, and Swiss francs, together w i th U.S. dollars, are prescribed for ex ternal trade transactions. For nontrade transactions, operations may also be effected in Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kroner, and Venezuelan bolfvares. 386 Export proceeds, inc lud ing loans for the prefinancing of exports, other than nontraditional exports benefiting from subsidized credit, must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank, which issues convertible foreign exchange certificates equal to 15 percent of the value of such receipts. During their validity period of ten working days, these certificates can be converted by the exporter into soles, or foreign currency deposits, or certificates of deposit. The Central Reserve Bank issues ten-day exchange certificates for the remaining 85 percent. These ex- change certificates are held by the surrendering bank for use by the exporter for his own permitted foreign exchange payments and transfers or for conversion into soles at the CRB rate of the day. If not so utilized within the ir ma tur i ty, the certificates are canceled, and the corresponding amount in soles is credited to the account of the bank at the buy ing rate in effect at the close of the preceding business day, m inus a discount of 2 percent. Exporters of nontraditional products availing them- selves of subsidized credit from the Fund for Nontradi- t ional Exports (PENT) are eligible for 180-day nontrans- ferable exchange certificates (PENT certificates) against the surrender of foreign exchange proceeds of preship- ment and postshipment credits received from abroad, provided that such foreign credits do not exceed 72 percent of the contemplated export value. Extensions of up to 360 days in the validity period of the certificates are permitted. PENT certificates remain in the custody of the Central Reserve Bank and bear interest at the LIBOR p lus five percentage points for the duration of the foreign export financing; they are applied directly by the Central Reserve Bank for the cancellation of part of the PENT credit to the exporter in local currency. Upon surrender of export proceeds, the Central Reserve Bank issues a second set of exchange certificates for the direct cancel- lation of the PENT credit not covered by PENT certificates. For the remainder of the surrendered foreign exchange, the following procedure is followed: for up to 15 percent of the total export proceeds, freely disposable ten-day exchange certificates are issued to the exporter; for any remaining exchange surrendered, ten-day ex- change certificates are issued that are usable either for payments through the un if ied exchange market or for conversion into soles at the CRB exchange rate. Peru formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export and import licenses are issued by the General Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Econ- omy, Finance, and Commerce, and can be easily obtained for most products. The Central Reserve Bank issues foreign exchange certificates against receipts from ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exports, and authorizes, directly or by delegation, most payments for invisibles. The Import Supervision Com- mission is the ultimate administrative authority on applications for prior import licenses denied at a lower level and rules on the exclusion of importers from the National Register of Importers. It also exercises general surveillance over the flow of imports and their effects on domestic production and is empowered to make recom- mendations to the Import Valuation Commission. The latter commission exercises surveillance over customs valuation and has the authority to purchase and auction off, or to impose special duties on, those imports deemed to be undervalued or dumped. Public sector imports valued at more than US$10,000 require the approval of the Board for External Transactions of the Public Sector and must be registered w i th the General Directorate of Foreign Trade. Public sector imports valued at more than US$50,000 require, in addition, a resolution of the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Commerce. Borrowing abroad by the public sector, as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector w i th a govern- ment guarantee, is subject to prior approval by Supreme Decree, on the recommendation of the Committee of the External Debt and the Na t ional P lann ing Institute. Pub l ic enterprises are required to register their short-term indebtedness with the General Directorate of Public Credit (GDPC) and to obtain GDPC's approval for renewal, rollover, or consolidation of such debt. Moreover, with effect from January 1983, the enterprises must submit their annual short-term borrowing programs to GDPC for approval. The National Commission on Investment and Foreign Technology (CoNlTE) supervises foreign direct investment in Peru, the use of foreign trademarks, patents, and licenses, as well as the related royalty payments. Most payments for invisibles require the approval of either CONITE or the Central Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency All exchange market operations must be effected in one of the 15 prescribed convertible currencies, but exchange certificates may be issued by the Central Reserve Bank only in U.S. dollars. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts ma in ta ined with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, w i th in the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA). Imports and Import Payments Import prohibitions are limited to certain raw cotton products and security-related materials wh ich comprise only 8 out of more than 5,250 eight-digit items on the Peruvian customs nomenclature (NABAND INA ). Another set of items specified by the General Directorate of Foreign Trade is importable only subject to prior approval (observation) from the appropriate m in is t ry; PERU they include items subject to public sector monopoly or deemed in need of protection or damaging to public welfare. All other items may be imported without quantitative restriction but importers must be listed in the National Register of Importers. However, imports valued at up to US$2,000 a year are free from licensing or registration requirements. An import license for imports from countries of the Andean Pact is not required nor is the listing of the importer in the National Register of Importers; the imports need only be registered with the General Directorate of Foreign Trade. Imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for the production of nontradi- tional exports are exempted from import duties and a specific import license is not required, provided that the appropriate m in is try determines that such imports qual- ify under the Temporary Admission Regime. Certain industrial raw materials and fertilizers, as well as certain agricultural commodities, such as milk pow- der, may be imported only by the National Enterprise for Indus t r ial Marketing (ENCi), and crude petroleum and petroleum derivatives only by PETROPERU, a government agency. Imports of capital goods must be covered by irrevoca- ble documentary credits, and the intermediating bank must guarantee re fund ing of the foreign currency if the import is not effected by the time the relevant documen- tary credit expires. There are no m in imum financing requirements for imports, and advance payments are permitted except for capital goods imported by firms w i th an annual turnover in excess of S/. 10 billion. With specified exemptions, imported goods are sub- ject to a un i fo rm value-added tax of 16 percent of the c . i . f. va lue of imports (in addition to the import duty); exemptions from the value-added tax include agricultural products, certain minerals and fuels, medicines, fertiliz- ers, pesticides, agricultural equipment and tractors, av ia t ion equ ipment and ships in excess of 1,000 tons, and items for personal use (including automobiles up to 2,000 cubic centimeters). In addition, a selective con- sumption tax (also in addition to the import duty) is levied on l u x u ry items, ranging from 10 percent to 40 percent of the c . i . f. value. Under the 1980 customs t a r i f f, as amended, the max imum import duty is 60 percent ad valorem, and the unweighted average rate at the end of 1983 amounted to 31.5 percent.2 In addition, many imports are subject to one or both of the fo l low ing taxes: (1) an additional import tax for the promotion of non trad i t ional exports of 1 percent of the c . i . f. va lue and (2) a maritime freight tax of 10 percent of the ocean freight charges. However, certain goods originating in Andean Pact countries may be imported du ty free. Pub l ic sector imports must, in principle, be shipped in Peruvian vessels. 2Inc lud ing the temporary 10 percent surcharge introduced in March 1983, the average rate stood at 41 percent at the end of 1983. 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Payments for Invisibles Authorization of the Central Reserve Bank or other agencies is required for most payments for inv is ib les, but the sale of foreign exchange is generally authorized freely, provided genuine current payments are involved. Remittance of net profits, inc lud ing depletion and depreciation allowances, requires approval of CONITE and a prior tax clearance. In accordance w i th Andean Pact rules, the remittance of profits on foreign capital invested in Peru is, in pr inc ip le, l im i ted to 20 percent a year, although a higher percentage may be permitted for investments that generate emp loymen t, are in unde- veloped areas, or help to d ive rs i fy exports.3 All pay- ments for royalties, patents, trademarks, and licenses require the prior approval of CONITE. Foreign-owned enterprises may not enter into new contracts to pay royalties to a foreign parent company or its a f f i l ia tes. The effective interest rate on a new loan from a foreign parent company or its aff i l ia te may not exceed by more than 3 percent the prevailing interest rate for first-class assets in the money market of the coun try in whose currency the transaction is conducted. Approval by the Central Reserve Bank is required for purchases of foreign exchange for payments of interest on certain loans, for remittances for social and human i ta r ian pur- poses, for income, insurance, and pension remittances to nonresidents, and for expenditures of agencies, branches, and offices of nonresident f irms. Interest payments by pub l ic sector entities require the approval of the General Directorate of Pub l ic Credit. The indicative annual l im it on purchases of foreign exchange for tourism is US$8,000 a person (US$500 a year for children under 12 years). For business travel the limit is US$400 a person a day up to US$12,000 a tr ip, plus representation expenses of US$500 a trip; approval of the Central Reserve Bank is required for business travel allocations. For both tourist and business travel, there is a flat tax of US$35 payable in na t ional currency. Remittances for studies abroad require the approval of the National Institute of Scholarships and Educational Loans (INABEC) and are generally l im i ted to US$3,000 a month for external students and US$600 a month for residential students or those on scholarships. Indicative limits are also established for medical travel and for certain other types of travel. Family remittances by Peruvian residents are limited to US$800 a mon th and the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank is re- quired. Foreigners resident in Peru may remit up to 50 percent of their annual income to cover specified foreign obligations, but those who avail themselves of these provisions are required to waive all r igh ts to purchase foreign exchange under other provisions of the exchange laws. The Central Reserve Bank may authorize purchases of exchange in excess of the above l im i ts in justified cases. 3Companies exporting at least 80 percent of the ir production to countries outside the Andean Pact and m i n i ng companies are exemp t. 388 Nonresidents v is i t ing Peru for purposes of tourism or business may, upon leaving the country, purchase up to US$500 in foreign exchange on presentation of evidence that at least that amount in foreign exchange has been converted into soles in the preceding 30 days. Exports and Export Proceeds Export prohibitions apply to a limited range of items, ma in ly rare w i ld l i fe or plants. Export licenses are required in certain other cases. The Banco Minero del Peru is the principal exporter of uncut precious stones and pearls, and MINPECO has a monopoly over exports of silver and other refined metals produced by the public enterprises, wh i le the Banco Minero has a monopoly over exports of gold. Among other exports, monopolies are held by PESCAPERU, over exports of fish meal and fish oil; PETROPERU, over exports of petroleum deriva- tives; and ENC I, over exports of cotton. These monop- olies are a traditional arrangement, and the private sector is free to establish marketing l inks w i th foreign buyers of these products. Exports of commodities specified as such by the General Directorate of Foreign Trade are subject to prior license, and all export proceeds, as well as export pref inanc ing loans, must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank w i t h in ten working days of receipt. Traditional exports must be sold against an irrevocable letter of credit confirmed by a bank estab- lished in Peru. In special cases, and w i th the authoriza- tion of the Central Reserve Bank and the General Directorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be sold against sight draf ts, provided that payment is received w i th in 180 days of shipment. Exporters of most nontraditional products are granted transferable tax credit certificates (certificados de rein- tegro tributario, or CERTEX) equivalent to a maximum of 22 percent of the f.o.b. value. In addition, 10 percent is allowed for exports from outside the Lima-Callao area. Exports of local hand icraf ts recognized as such by the General Directorate of Foreign Trade are eligible for CERTEX benefits at a rate of 30 percent. These certifi- cates may be used by the exporter in payment of his tax obligations or may be sold to other taxpayers, who may use them for the same purpose. The Banco de la Nacion adm in is ters an export credit guarantee program, and the Indus tr ial Bank provides or arranges export finance for non trad i t ional exports. To be eligible for the incentives granted for non trad i t ional exports, exporters must be listed in the Register of Enterprises Exporting Nontradi- t ional Products; each entry in the list is valid for two years. Most t rad i t ional exports are subject to a tax of up to 12 percent, wh ich is payable in soles, but when the in terna t ional price is below a specified level, exports of copper from the mineral deposits of Cuajone or by small and medium-sized m in ing enterprises are exempt. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles may be held abroad or sold to the bank ing system or deposited in authorized foreign exchange accounts w i th in ten working days of receipt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital Outward capital transfers require approval. For trans- fers derived from foreign direct inves tment the approval of CONITE is required, wh i le for most other transfers the appropriate agency is the Central Reserve Bank. M in imum ma tur i t ies and grace periods for d i f fe rent categories of external loans contracted or guaranteed by the public sector have been established. Furthermore, annual global limits are established on the con trac t ing of new public or pub l ic ly guaranteed external debt (w i th certain exceptions) hav ing an original m a tu r i ty of more than one but less than ten years. Loan amortization payments of the private sector are authorized by the Central Reserve Bank and those of the pub l ic sector by the General Directorate of Pub l ic Credit. In cases where proceeds of foreign loans have been used to purchase foreign currency bank certificates of deposit or to make deposits directly to foreign currency accounts, amortiza- tion payments on such loans are not e l ig ib le for transfer at the official exchange rate. All nontrade-related short-term debts disbursed and outstanding on March 7, 1983 and f a l l ing due before March 6, 1984 are required to be refinanced on m a tu r i ty for an additional period of 360 days; short-term trade credits w i th banks that have not signed a re f inanc ing agreement are to be rolled over on ma tu r i ty for an additional period of 90 days. Local currency funds for the servicing of these debts are to be placed on deposit in special accounts at the Central Reserve Bank on the maturity date of the original ob l iga t ion. W i th the permission of the Central Bank, f u n ds in these special accounts may be lent out domes t ica l ly as loans denom i- nated in foreign currency, w i th a ma tu r i ty of less than one year. Debt repayments on the short-term foreign trade credits are permitted only to those banks that have signed a refinancing agreement under tak ing to ma in ta in potential access of Peruvian borrowers to short-term lines of credit at the level ou ts tand ing on March 7, 1983. Banks may receive funds o r ig ina t ing abroad in the form of drafts, checks, bank transfers, foreign currency traveler's checks, or foreign notes and coin for deposit to foreign currency accounts ma in ta ined in the name of residents or nonresidents. They may also issue foreign exchange certificates of deposit against such fund s. These funds and the accrued interest thereon may be freely disposed of by the depositor. Und er an exchange amnesty, residents may repatriate foreign assets w i thout specifying the origin of such f u n ds and w i thout fac ing penalties for hav ing violated exchange laws in effect prior to October 7, 1977. In compliance with the foreign inves tment regime approved by the countries of the Andean Pact, new foreign investments must be authorized and registered w i th the appropriate agency, in most instances CONITE, so that such investments are directed to projects consid- ered essential for the coun try's development. If a foreign company incorporated in Peru as of J u ly 1, 1971 wishes to benefit from the du ty-free program of the Cartagena PERU Agreement, it was required to have agreed by June 30, 1974 to the gradual acquisition by na t ional investors of shares in the company so as to transform it into a mixed or na t ional company du r ing a max imum period of 15 years fo l low ing the entering into effect of th is regime. For th is purpose, mixed companies are defined as those in wh ich na t ional investors hold between 51 percent and 80 percent of the capital, wh i le national companies are those in wh ich at least 80 percent of the capital is owned by na t ional investors. Since June 30, 1974 the required participation of national investors in the capital of an enterprise has been not less than 15 percent; this participation must be raised to at least 45 percent after 10 years and to at least 51 percent at the end of the 15-year period. For foreign companies established in Peru af ter June 30, 1971, the 15 percent participation by na t ional investors must be secured at the time of the in i t ia t ion of produc t ion. Foreign investments in f irms engaged in basic industries or in m in ing activities ( inc lud ing petroleum production) and in f irms that export at least 80 percent of the ir production to countries outside the Andean Common Market are exempt from the requ irement of gradual transformation in to mixed companies; however, these enterprises do not benefit from the du ty-free program of the Cartagena Agreement. Foreign enterprises may not have access to domestic credit on terms longer than three years or in amounts greater than the ir capital and reserves. Inves tment in the m in ing sector is governed by the General M i n i ng Law. Companies ho ld ing m in ing con- cessions may enter into m in ing contracts w i th the Government providing for special incentives and guaran- tees or may constitute mixed enterprises w i th govern- ment participation of at least 25 percent. The Govern- ment may grant to m in ing concessionaries ( in i t ia t ing large-scale inves tment programs) tax incentives and guaranteed ava i lab i l i ty of foreign exchange for transfers for ( 1) recovery of inves tmen t, (2) interest payments if the rate does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar loans in the f inanc ial market from wh ich the loans or ig ina te, (3) payments for jus t if ied services, and (4) reasonable profit remittances, together w i th guaran- teed access to the most favorable exchange rate. Mixed m in ing enterprises may receive all the benefits and incentives wh ich may be granted by special contract and, in add i t ion, special tax reductions. Gold Export of gold in the form of precious metals is the monopoly of the Banco Minero del Peru. The authorities do not make foreign exchange available for imports of gold other than by or on behalf of the monetary au thor i t ies and authorized indu s t r ial and professional users. Domestic sales and purchases of gold may be carried out by indus tr ial and professional users, provided that they hold licenses issued by the Banco Minero del Peru, but on ly MINPECO is authorized to make the in i t ial purchase of new ly mined gold and other precious metals. 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement July 16. The exchange rate used for c a l c u l a t i ng the sales va lue of CERTEX paymen ts was changed from the rate p reva i l ing on the day of s h i pm e nt to the rate on the issuance date of the cer t if ica te. August 8. In add i t ion to deva lua t ion of the sol by 6 .1 percent against the U .S. do l la r, it was announced that the end-of-mon th exchange rate of the sol in terms of the U .S. do l lar wou ld hence fo r th be es tab l ished pr ior to the beg inn ing of the pa r t icu lar m o n t h, and that the mon th ly rate of deprec ia t ion wou ld not exceed 4 percent. On th is basis, exchange rates for end-Sep tember, end- October, and end -Novembe r, 1983 were p r e announ c ed, prov id ing for depreciation of the sol by 3.9 percen t, 3.8 percent, and 3.6 percent. ( In m id -Sep tember an ex- change rate was preannounced for end-December, providing for an add i t ional deprec ia t ion of 3.5 pe rcen t .) August 19. Au tho r iza t ion was granted for ex tens ions of up to 360 days in the period of va l id i ty of PENT certificates. Imports and Import Payments January 10. Imports of firework items for en t e r t a in- ment were proh ib i ted. February 11. Prior impo rt l i c en s ing requ i remen ts were abolished for most types of f e r t i l i z e r s. March 21. The rate of the temporary import sur- charge was changed from 15 percent of the d u ty payab le to 10 percent of the c . i . f. va lue of the import; the surcharge was also extended u n t il December 31, 1983. March 25. Prior l icens ing requ i remen ts were im- posed on the import of sugar. April 9. Au tho r iza t ion was granted for p r iva te im- ports of whea t, subject to ob ta in ing an import license. May 15. Prior l icens ing requ i remen ts were abo l ished for sugar imports. May 23. Res tr ic t ions were l i f t ed on the impo r t a t ion of potatoes (exc lud ing seed potatoes). Exports and Export Proceeds April 25. A f a c i l i ty was in t roduced to provide PENT p r e sh ipm ent f i n a n c i ng in soles, up to a m a x im um of 50 percent of the f .o .b. v a lue of export sh ipmen t. The f a c i l i ty cou ld be used a lone or in con junc t ion w i th PENT f i n a n c i ng in U .S. do l l a r s, up to a comb ined m a x im um of 90 percent of the export v a l u e. The rate of interest on PENT f i n a n c i ng in soles was specified at 60 percent. May 4. R e s t r i c t ions were l i f t ed on exports of spec i f ied types of n a t i ve wool produc ts. May 22. The export of cotton was p roh ib i ted, except w i th special pe rm i s s ion by the N a t i o n al Cotton U n i o n. In add i t ion it was announced t h a t, w i th effect from Septem- ber 1983, expor ts of uncombed cotton wou ld not be pe rm i t ted u n d er any c i rcums tances. September 15. Such exports of t e x t i le produc ts to the U n i t ed States as were sub j e ct to c o u n t e r v a i l i ng duties were declared i n e l i g i b le for incen t ives app ly ing to n o n t r a d i t i o n al exports. Capital March 8. Paymen ts on short-term debt ou ts tand ing as of March 7, 1983 were e f f e c t iv e ly postponed (for a l im i t ed period and in d e c l i n i ng amoun t s) by requ i r ing that t rade cred i ts f a l l i ng due before May 31, 1983 be re f inanced upon m a t u r i ty for an add i t ional period of 90 days. O ther shor t- term cred i ts f a l l i ng due before December 31, 1983 ( sub s equ en t ly ex tended to March 6, 1984) were requ i red to be re f inanced upon m a t u r i ty for an add i t ion al period of 360 days. The regu la t ion required local currency f u n ds for the se rv ic ing of these debts to be placed on deposit at the Central B a n k, us ing the exchange rate p r e v a i l i ng on the m a t u r i ty date of the ob l ig a t ion; a deposit account in fore ign currency would be opened at the Central Bank in the name of the f i n a n c i al i n s t i t u t i on th rough w h i ch the debt serv ic ing wou ld be c h a n n e l e d, so that the la t ter in s t i tu t ion could assume the fo re ign ob l iga t ion of the local creditor un t il the re f inanced loan cou ld be repaid. (The dates under t h is r e g u l a t i on were sub sequen t ly extended on several occasions, i n v o l v i ng m inor mod i f ica t ions in the def in i- t i on of e l i g i b le loan s .) 390 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Ph i l ipp in es is the P h i l i p p i ne Peso. The authorities of the P h i l i p p i n es do not m a i n t a in margins in respect of exchange t ran sac t ion s, and ex- change rates are de term ined la rge ly on the bas is of demand and supp ly in the exchange m a rk e t. Howeve r, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to ma in ta in orderly cond i t ions in the exchange ma rket and other policy objectives in the m e d i um te rm. The Bank- ers' Association establishes d a i ly a "gu id ing rate"; on December 3 1, 1983 th is rate was P 14.002 per U S $ 1. In spot transac t ions of less than US$100,000 w i th t h e ir customers, commercial banks are requ i red by the Asso- ciation to observe certain m a rg in s. The m i n i m um and m ax imum spot b u y i ng rates are 0.50 percent and 1 percent, respec t ive ly, be low the g u i d i ng ra te. The m i n im um and m a x im um spot s e l l ing rates are 0.75 per- cent and 1.25 percent, respectively, above the g u i d i ng rate. For transactions in excess of US$100,000, the marg ins are determined c om p e t i t i v e l y. The Cen tral B ank is not governed by the Assoc ia t ion 's t rad ing ru les in mak ing its own purchases and sales of fore ign exchange. Interbank trad ing takes place at the Foreign Exchange Trading Center (FOREX ), where the Cen tral Bank from time to t ime acts as a buyer or as a supp l i e r. There are no taxes or subs id ies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange regu la t ions are adm in i s te red by the Central Bank on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Monetary Board. Certain new fo re ign d irect or po r t fo l io inves tmen ts in the Ph i l ipp ines requ ire the prior approval of the Board of Inves tmen ts (BO I ). In addition to other b ank s, the t h r i ft banks and the rural banks are authorized by the Cen tral Bank to deal in foreign exchange; subject to certain cond i t ion s, they may purchase foreign currencies from tou r is ts and other specified nonres iden ts, for conversion in to pesos. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requ i remen ts for outgoing paymen t s, but all exchange proceeds from exports and inv i s ib l es mu st be obtained in prescribed cu r renc ies .' Most paymen ts and transfers to Sou th Afr ica are proh ib i ted. Au tho r ized agent banks and foreign exchange dealers are au thor ized to accept notes denominated in Saudi A rab ian r iya l s, K u w a i ti d in a r s, and Bahra in dinars for conversion i n to pesos. 'A u s t r i an s c h i l l i n g s, B e l g i an f r a n c s, C a n a d i an d o l l a r s, deu t sche ma rk, French f ranc s, Hong Kong d o l l a r s, Japanese y e n. N e t h e r l a n ds gu i lde r s, pounds s t e r l ing, Singapore do l l a r s, Sw iss f r an c s, and U .S. do l lars. Nonresident Accounts B ank accoun ts d enom in a t ed in pesos may be opened in the names of n o n r e s i d e n t s, whe ther i n d i v i d u al or corpora te, w i t h o ut the p r ior approval of the Central B a n k. Non r e s id ent accoun ts may be credited on ly w i th the proceeds from inw a rd rem i t tances of foreign ex- change or conve r t ib le fore ign currenc ies and w i th peso income f r om, or peso proceeds of, conversion of proper t ies (real or pe rsona l) located in the Ph i l ipp ines and b e l o n g i ng to non res iden ts. Non res ident accounts may be f ree ly deb i ted for peso w i t h d r aw a l s. W i thd raw- als from non r e s id ent accoun ts for transfer abroad are sub ject to i n d i v i d u al app l ica t ion w i th supporting evi- dence, and to e s tab l i shed l im i ts where app l icab le, such as in the case of em ig r an t s. Su b j e ct to a u t h o r i z a t i o n, both residents and nonresi- den ts may m a i n t a in fore ign currency accounts w i th au tho r ized agent banks in the Ph i l ipp ines (see section on Proceeds from I n v i s i b l e s, be low ). Imports and Import Payments Impor ts from Sou th A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. There is a p r io r i ty sys tem under w h i ch fore ign exchange for import paymen ts is prov ided in order of impor tance for (a) oil impo r ts, and (b) trade-related paymen ts for ( i) inpu ts in to export p roduc t ion, ( i i) raw ma ter ia ls for v i tal domestic i n d u s t r i e s, and ( i i i) food g r a in s. Release of foreign exchange by the Central Bank for the opening of letters of c red it w i t h in the p r io r i ty system fo l lows gu ide l ines e s tab l i shed by the Cen tral Bank in collaboration w i th rep resen ta t ives of the B ank e r s' Association of the Philip- p ine s. Impor ts of ce r ta in other commod i t ies are pro- h i b i t e d, mos t ly on g rounds of h e a l th, na t ional welfare, and s e c u r i t y. Impo r ts of cer ta in commod i t ies require pr ior approval by specified government agencies or comm i t tee s, m a i n ly for protective purposes. Sales of fore ign exchange for impor ts of commodities that are c la s s i f ied under two categories of consumer goods— unc lass if ied (UC) and nonessential (NEC) are subject to prior approval of the Cen tral Bank; the opening of letters of cred it for such imports mu st be reported to the Central B a nk w i t h in 24 hou r s. Paymen ts for imports of certain o ther commod i t ies (w h e a t, raw co t ton, and leaf tobacco) are pe rm i t ted o n ly if they are f inanced th rough certain o f f i c i al c red it arrangemen ts. Any impo r ta t ion of p lan t, m a c h i n e r y, e q u i pm e n t, and spare parts under deferred paymen ts a r rangemen ts w i th ma tu r i ty periods longer than 360 days is sub ject to prior approval by the Central B a n k. If payment te rms are cash or w i t h in 360 days, prior approval by the Central Bank is necessary for impo r ta t ion by any s ing le impo r ter of nonag r icu l tu ral mach ine ry and equ ipm ent w i th an aggregate va lue in excess of US$50,000 w i t h in a ca lendar mon th, w i th the excep t ion of ce r t i f ied export-oriented f i rms and other 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES importers who have ob ta ined prescribed ce r t i f ica t ion from the BOI. Trade w i th any of the state-trading coun t r ies, exc lud- ing Yugos lav ia, must be effected th rough the Ph i l ipp ine International Trading Corporation. As a method of paymen t, commod i t ies may be imported against letters of cred i t, on a document aga inst acceptance (D /A) basis, or under open account (O /A) arrangements. The use of the D/A and O/A procedures is restricted to oil f i rm s, companies registered w i th the Export Processing Zone Au tho r i ty (EPZA), exporters of semiconductor dev ices, and exporters of garmen ts and footwear. The use of these procedures by producer f i rms normally is restricted to commodities in the Essential Producer Goods category. Un less arrangements are made for such terms of cred i t, imports in excess of US$1,000 (US$500 for pub l ica t ions) must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the day of sh ipment and are subject to the release cer t if ica te requ i remen t. Imports financed by the importer's own fore ign ex- change or not involving payments from the Philippines are allowed, subject to prescribed cond i t ion s, and are exempt from the requ irement of opening letters of credit. The reserve requ irement on ma rg inal deposit on all import letters of credit is 100 percent. At the request of an authorized agent bank or other f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion, a f irm may be "watch listed" by the Central Bank for arrears on its loan repayment comm i t- men ts. A firm thus wa tch listed may not open import letters of credit w i thout the approval of the Central B a n k, wh ich w i ll allow the opening of letters of credit on ly after a schedule for the repayment of overdue obligations has been agreed upon. Certain au thor ized agent banks require 50 percent deposit against the opening of letters of credit for such f i rms, compared w i th 25 percent in normal cases. There are separate regu la t ions for imports in to border regions by barter traders. Payments for Invisibles V i r tua l ly all paymen ts to South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. In pr inc ip le, all other paymen ts are pe rm i t ted, w i thout prior approval of the Central Bank, provided that amoun ts of more than US$100 are subs tan t ia ted by documentary evidence. However, there are certain l im i ts established by the Central Bank for purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad by res iden ts, rem i t tances for educational expenses, ma in tenance and expenses of dependents of residents wh i le abroad, rem i t tances of profits, d iv idends, and interest, roya l t ies, and for f i lm and other rentals (see be low). Foreign exchange a l low- ance for business travel abroad depends upon the foreign exchange earning of the ind iv idu al bus iness, the rank of the traveler, and the destination. For registered exporters with foreign exchange earnings in excess of US$1 m i l- lion a year, the allowance is US$250 a day p lus US$500 for representation expenses in respect of travel to A f r i c a, North Amer ica, South America, Aus t ra l ia, New Zea- land, Canada, Europe, Japan, and the M idd le East, and 392 US$120 a day p lus US$300 for representation expenses for travel to other countries. Senior officials of firms earn ing foreign exchange of less than US$1 m i l l ion a year are en t i t led to US$200 a day, p lus US$500 for representation expenses, for travel to the enumerated areas and US$140 a day, p lus US$300 for representation expenses, to other areas. Senior off ic ia ls of f irms not earn ing foreign exchange are entitled to US$140 a day for t ravel to the enumerated areas, p lus US$300 for representation expenses, and US$50 a day, plus US$300 in representation expenses, to all other areas. All these d a i ly allowances may be purchased for up to 20 days a trip for travel to the enumerated areas and up to 15 days for travel to all other areas; applications for travel abroad for a f i f th or subsequent t ime w i th in one calendar year are subject to careful review by the agent banks to prevent abuse. For nonbusiness travel to Africa, the Un i ted States, South America, Aus t ra l ia, Europe, Japan, the M idd le East, and New Zealand the allocation for each adu lt resident is limited to US$2,000 a year and to US$1,200 a year for such travel to all other countries. Travelers under 12 years of age are eligible for half of the standard a l lowance. A foreign tourist holding a visa va l id for up to 59 days may remit abroad up to the equ iv a l ent of US$ 1,000, beyond wh ich approval must be obtained from the Central Bank. The fo l low ing l im i ts apply to exchange for educa- t ional expenses abroad for s tuden ts under tak ing degree courses at d u ly accredited colleges or universities: for s tud ies in the Un i ted States, US$250 a month for living and other out-of-school expenses, p lus the cost of tu i t ion, books, laboratory fees, and other school charges; for s tud ies in Au s t r a l i a, Europe, Japan, and New Zea land, US$200 a mon th. Any scholarship allowances are deducted from these amoun ts. The l im i ts on rem i t tances to dependents of residents are as fo l lows: US$250 a month for each dependent l i v i ng in the Un i ted States; US$200 a month for each dependent l iv ing in Au s t ra l ia, Europe, Japan, or New Zealand; and US$100 a month for each dependent living in other areas. The ma in tenance allowances for depen- dents are allowed on ly for close relatives under condi- tions prescribed by the Central Bank. Rem i t tances of profits and d iv idends (net of taxes) acc ru ing to nonres iden ts out of net profits realized since J anu a ry 1, 1973 are permitted in f u l l, provided that rem i t tances are not financed from domestic borrowings. Profits earned and d iv idends declared before Janua ry 1, 1973 (wh i ch had been unremittable for some time) may be rem i t ted provided that such remittances are not f inanced w i th domestic borrowings. Remittances of royalties or rentals on patents, trademarks, and copy- r igh ts are freely permitted (net of taxes) for contracts registered w i th the Central Bank, provided that the royalties do not exceed 5 percent of the wholesale price of the commod i ty that is manu fac tu red locally under the roya l ty contract (2 percent in the case of marketing service contracts), and that contracts do not exceed five- year terms and do not inc lude restrictions on the export ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of the product. Remittances of the producer's share of earnings made on motion-picture f i lms and rentals on television f i lms are freely permitted, provided generally that the shares or rentals do not exceed 60 percent of net proceeds from f i lms. Foreign exchange w i t h in the above l im i ts may be purchased from authorized agent banks, w i thout prior approval of the Central B ank, for current paymen ts for invisibles adm in is tra t ive ly w i t h h e ld pr ior to Novem- ber 26, 1969. Applications for certain inv is ib les for which no basic allowance has been set are considered on their merits by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export from the Ph i l ipp in es foreign currency or any other foreign exchange except as authorized by the Central B ank. Residents may take ou t, as part of their travel allowance, up to US$100 in foreign bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had prev ious ly brought in and declared, less any amoun ts converted in to pesos. Resident and nonresident travelers requ ire prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than P 500 in domestic notes and coin or checks, money orders, and other b i l ls of exchange drawn in pesos. Citizens of the Ph i l ipp ines, when t rave l ing abroad, must pay a travel tax of £ 1,350 for first-class sh ip or a i rp lane tickets or £ 810 for any other t icke t. Exempt are, among others, foreign diplomatic staff and P h i l i p p i ne na t iona ls making their first pilgrimage to Mecca. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are proh ib i ted. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and economic deve lopment are also prohibited. Otherwise, exports are generally not re- stricted, but are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an au thor ized agent of the Central B ank. Au thor ized agent banks issue the necessary export perm i ts upon reg is tra t ion of the exporter's report of foreign sales (except export permits for gold, wh ich are issued by the Central B ank ); reports of foreign sales of copra, coconut oil, and sugar-based commodities, however, are approved for reg is tra t ion only by the Central Bank. Registration of sales of sugar- based commodities requires prior clearance by the Department of Trade. As a general ru le, no commod i ty may be exported unless it is covered by a draft drawn in one of the prescribed currencies (see footnote 1) and un less collec- tion of the proceeds w i ll be under taken by an au thor ized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or ma il transfer may be allowed. Payments for exports on a cash, co l lec t ion, or consign- ment basis must be arranged th rough an au thor ized agent bank, which must spec if ica l ly contract w i th the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. No sh ipment of exports w i ll be allowed by the customs un less a certificate is issued by a bank stating that payment has been received or arranged. Export proceeds must be received in a prescribed currency w i th in 60 days from the date of PHILIPPINES sh ipment (or w i t h in such period as may be established in special cases) and surrendered to the agent bank w i th in 3 business days of receipt. The und rawn balances of exports invo lv ing in i t ial drawings of less than 100 per- cent of the f .o .b. invoice va lue must be collected and repatriated w i t h in 150 days from the date of shipment for exports to Europe, A f r ica, and La t in America, and 120 days from date of sh ipment for exports to other coun- tries. An irrevocable letter of credit is required for all exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut oil, and for all exports to Guam, Hong Kong, Indones ia, and Japan. Exports of perishable commodities to Hong Kong re- qu i re p repaymen t. Under an "export deduction" scheme, export-oriented indus t r ies are allowed, subject to the prior approval of the Central B a n k, to use a part of their export proceeds for the repayment of the loans obtained for imports of mach ine ry, raw materials, and other requirements. An export tax is levied on the f.o.b. value of certain major exports. The rate is 6 percent for centrifugal sugar; 4 percent for gold, silver, iron ore and concentrates, ch rom i te ore and concentrates, unmanu fac tu red abaca, molasses, canned pineapples, bunker fuel oil, cement c l inke r, portland cement, petroleum pitch and residues, and lumber and veneer; and 2 percent for bananas. However, the export taxes on mineral products and cement are suspended. Certain trad i t ional export com- mod i t ies are subject to p rem ium export duties; those on m ine ral products and cement are suspended. The Ph i l ipp ine Sugar Commission has a monopoly over the export of sugar. Export trade w i th state-trading coun tr ies, exc lud ing Yugos lav ia, is handled through the Ph i l ipp ine In te rna t ional Trading Corporation. There are separate regulations for exports from border regions by barter traders. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from inv is ib les must be sold w i th in three bus iness days to an authorized agent bank. Ph i l ipp ine cons truc t ion companies registered w i th the Ph i l ipp ine Overseas Construction Board and having overseas proj- ects may retain abroad, on a noncumu la t ive basis, specified portions of the ir net foreign exchange receipts to meet th e ir operational foreign exchange requirements for the succeeding calendar quarter. Ph i l ipp ine nationals employed abroad are permitted to open U .S. dollar deposit accounts w i th authorized agent banks, in wh ich they may retain any U .S. dollars they remit to the Ph i l ipp ine s. To be e l ig ib le for credit to such accounts, earn ings must be transferred th rough Ph i l ipp ine diplo- matic es tab l ishmen ts. Under a foreign currency deposit scheme, inward remittances of foreign currencies by residents or nonresidents for deposit in numbered foreign currency accounts are exempt from surrender require- men ts, provided that the remittances represent neither current earn ings or income of residents nor payments by nonresidents pu r suant to contractual obligations. Bal- ances in such accounts are freely transferable abroad. Ph i l ipp ine na t iona ls wo rk ing abroad are required to 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES repatriate specified m in imum shares of their foreign earnings, ranging from 30 percent to 70 percent. Travel- ers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to £ 500 in domestic notes and coin and checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos, of which not more than P 50 may consist of Philippine coin. Peso-denominated gold coins issued by the Central Bank of the Philippines are exempt from these requirements. Capital Virtually all payments and transfers to South Africa are prohibited. Remittances of foreign exchange for repayment of principal on all foreign obligations of whatever maturity due to foreign banks or other f inanc ial institutions during the period October 17, 1983 to January 16, 1984 are subject to prior approval by the Central Bank. All inward and outward capital move- ments, with the exception of certain bank ing operations and certain transactions related to f inanc ing of interna- tional trade (see below), are subject to the prior and specific approval of the Central Bank. When applica- tions for new inward foreign investments (in kind or in cash), as well as new foreign borrowings are reviewed, preference is given to projects approved by the BOI, to export-oriented industries, and to other (nonexport- oriented) industries not u t i l iz ing domestic credit re- sources. The law guarantees fu ll repatriation of cash investments made after March 15, 1973 in export- oriented industries that have been certified by the Central Bank, in enterprises registered with the BOI, and in securities certified by the Central Bank and traded on the Manila and Makati Stock Exchanges. As a m i n im um, foreign investors must hold securities for at least 90 days before the proceeds become eligible for repatriation. Foreign companies are eligible to borrow pesos from domestic sources, provided they have a debt-equity ratio of 60:40 in high-priority sectors, 55:45 in med ium- priority sectors, and 50:50 in low-priority sectors. Foreign direct cash investments made after March 15, 1973 and registered w i th the Central Bank are freely repatriable, except for investments in domestic commer- cial banks, wh ich, if made after March 31, 1973, are freely repatriable and if made before that date are repatri- able according to the schedule in (4) below. There are certain restrictions on sales of foreign exchange for the repatriation of foreign direct cash investments made before March 16, 1973 and noncash investments made after March 15, 1973, depending on the category of in- dustry where the investment is made, as follows: (1) in- vestments in export-oriented industries certified by the Central Bank are repatriable in fu l l, but no annual install- ment may exceed the applicant's share in the net foreign exchange earnings of the firm in the preceding year; (2) investments in enterprises registered with the BOI, producing import substitutes or exports, are repatriable in three equal annual installments starting one year after the liquidation of the investment, but no annual in- stallment may exceed the total net foreign exchange 394 earnings in the preceding year; (3) investments in enterprises registered w i th the BOI (not included in (2) above and not u t i l i z ing domestic credit resources) are repatriable in four equal annual installments starting one year after the l iqu ida t ion of the investment; and (4) for investments in the rema in ing indus tr ies, repatriation is allowed according to the following schedule: for amoun ts of US$0.25 m i l l ion or less, five equal annual ins ta l lmen ts after l iqu ida t ion; for amoun ts of US$0.25- 0.5 m i l l ion, seven equal annual ins ta l lmen ts after liqui- dation; and for amounts of over US$0.5 m i l l ion, nine equal annual ins ta l lmen ts after l iqu ida t ion. Approval and registration by the Central Bank are required for the assigned capital of branches of foreign banks to be e l ig ib le for profit remittances and capital repatriation. Du r ing the period between the date of the investment and repatriation, l iqu id a t ion proceeds may be reinvested, subject to approval by the Central Bank, in foreign currency deposits, in government securities, or in shares of stock in export-oriented industries registered w i th the BOI or certified by the Central Bank. W i thout prior central bank approval, commercial banks may not receive credit from abroad other than credit arising from normal in terna t ional trade transac- tions. They may, however, accept deposits in nine scheduled currencies2 from nonresidents of foreign na t iona l i ty; such deposits are freely repatriable at the prevailing exchange rate and are exempt from the 35 percent w i thho ld ing tax. Twenty-five domestic com- mercial banks and four local branches of foreign banks are licensed to operate in an expanded foreign currency deposit scheme; these foreign currency deposit un it banks (FCDUs) are empowered to borrow funds from in terna t ional money markets for domestic on-lending. Nonbank residents may obtain suppliers' credits from abroad provided that repayment terms are w i th in the l im i ts prescribed by the Central Bank. Maturities of long-term loans or repayment terms should be as follows: (1) US$250,000 or less, three years; (2) over US$250,000 up to US$500,000, five years; (3) over US$500,000 up to US$3 m i l l ion, seven years; and (4) over US$3 m i l l i o n, eight to ten years. Firms whose products are clearly destined for export, as well as firms earning foreign exchange and du ly certified as belonging to other pr ior i ty areas (food, energy, infrastructure, transport, and commun ica t ion) w i th appropriate govern- ment agencies, may secure credits in excess of US$3 m i l l ion w i th a m i n im um repayment period of seven to eight years. Interest rates may not be more than 1.5 percent above the prime rate of the lending country. Applications are not approved if the proposed project expands capacity in an industry deemed to be over- crowded or for firms that are in arrears w i th government financial institutions. Any prospective borrowing equiv- alent to US$3 m i l l ion or more must be submitted for 2Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands gu i lders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U .S. do l lars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution inclusion in the Central Bank 's programming of external credit resources. Sales of foreign exchange for amortiza- tion of loans are permitted in accordance w i th the terms of loan contracts approved by the Central Bank. The same applies for loan contracts registered w i th the Central Bank prior to November 26, 1969. For those not falling under these two categories, prior approval by the Central Bank is required for sales of foreign exchange for repayment of loans. Emigrants may transfer up to US$5,000, subject to verification by the Central Bank. The rema in ing l i q u id assets may be withdrawn in five years beg inn ing one year from emigration. Outward investment by resident persons, f i rm s, or corporations requires prior approval of the Central Bank through the Management of External Debt and Invest- ment Accounts Department. Except as otherwise specif- ically authorized, resident persons, f i rm s, or corpora- tions may not enter into any contract or transaction which may involve settlement in foreign exchange, or involving any assets belonging to them expressed in foreign currencies or payable or deliverable abroad. This restriction also applies to contracts or transactions invo lv ing assets w i th in the Ph i l ipp ines belonging to a nonresident person, f irm, or corporation, and to the ir export or import. Detailed regulations are in force concerning transactions in securities between residents and nonresidents. Twenty-five foreign banks have been authorized to operate offshore bank ing un i ts in the Ph i l ipp ines. These un i ts may engage in a wide range of foreign currency transactions w i th nonresidents and w i th other offshore un i ts. Offshore banking un i ts may open and m a in t a in deposit accounts in pesos w i th domestic agent banks exclusively to meet administrative and other operating expenses and to pay to designated local beneficiaries of nonresident Filipinos the equivalent of foreign exchange remittances channeled through the offshore b a n k i ng un i ts' correspondent banks abroad. Offshore b ank ing units may also sell inward remittances of fore ign exchange to the Central Bank. All investors in enterprises registered w i th the BOI are guaranteed the right to repatriate their inves tmen ts and to remit earnings thereon and sums needed to meet pay- ments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom from expropriation and requ i s i- tion. There are d ifferent arrangements for "pioneer investments" and "preferred investments"; the former are granted certain incentives over and above those given to preferred investments. Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by for- eigners are permitted to operate only in "pioneer areas of investment," and at least 60 percent of the ou ts tand ing voting capital stock of registered enterprises in "pre- ferred areas of investment" must be owned by Ph i l ipp ine nationals. Under the Foreign Investment Law of 1968, new enterprises where inves tment by non -F i l ip inos exceeds 30 percent and wh ich are not covered by the Investment Incentives Act of 1967 must obtain prior PHILIPPINES au thor i ty from the BOI in order to engage in any economic ac t iv i ty in the Ph i l ipp ines. If purchases of shares of common stock by foreign nationals would reduce Ph i l ipp ine ownersh ip in a f i rm to less than 70 percent, permission from the BOI must first be ob ta ined. Gold Producers of gold may be eligible for assistance under the Gold Indus t ry Assistance Ac t, irrespective of whe ther th is gold is a by-product or the principal or only product of the ir operations. The Central Bank purchases the entire ou tput of the 14 domestic pr imary gold producers. The producers are paid in Ph i l ipp ine pesos based on the latest London f i x i ng price and the p reva i l ing Ph i l ipp ine peso-U.S. dol- lar exchange ra te. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of o f f ic ial in te rna t ional reserves. Small gold panners are exempt from the scheme. Residents other than the mone tary au tho r i t i e s, authorized gold dealers, and au- thorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to purchase gold abroad in any form other than jewe l ry. Various denom ina t ions of gold coins have been issued by the Central Bank of the Ph i l ipp ines as follows: a 1-Peso Paul VI coin (1970), a 1,000-Piso Ang Bagong L ipunan coin (1975 ), a 1,500-Piso IMF-IBRD coin (1976), the 1,500-Piso Ang Bagong L ipunan coins (1977 and 1978), a 5,000-Piso Ang Bagong Lipunan coin (1977 ), a 2,500-Piso Douglas MacAr thur centenary coin (1980), and a 1,500-Piso Pope John Paul II coin (1981). Transactions in legal tender gold coins are governed by the provisions of Central Bank C ircu lar No. 570, dated June 9, 1977. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than j ew e l ry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not norma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au tho r i t ies and indus t r ial users. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments January 5. Au thor iza t ion to import under arrange- men ts in the form of documents against acceptance (D /A) or open accounts (O /A) was restricted to oil f i rms, companies registered w i th the Export Processing Zone A u t h o r i ty (EPZA), exporters of semiconductor devices, and exporters of garments and footwear (MAAB No. 1). January 6. Import duties were made payable at the t ime of opening letters of credit (Circular No. 909). March 18. Authorized agent banks were allowed to sell foreign exchange to cover the importation of certain nonessen t ial consumer (NEC-3) items w i thout prior specific approval of the Central Bank. Imports of these products totaled US$0.8 m i l l i on in 1982 (Circular No. 918 ). April 7. An import surcharge of 3 percent was in t roduced. June 30. Requ ired reserves against marginal deposits on importers' letters of credit covering liberalized items such as those f a l l ing under commodity categories NEC-1, 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 2, and 3, and UC -1, 2, and 3 were increased to 100 per- cent (Circular No. 937). July 25. It was announced that importation by any single importer of capital goods, mach ine ry, and equ ip- ment fa l l ing under Section 7 of the Ph i l ipp ine Standard Commodity Classification Manua l, up to an aggregate value of US$50,000 or more w i th in any one calendar mon th, would be allowed on ly if such imports were covered by suppliers' credit or financed through Asian Development Bank and/or World Bank credit l ines, including the APEX fac i l i ty (MAAB No. 29). November 2. Approval of applications for the impor- tation of fresh f ru i t, electronic products, and components for assembly and liquors and w ines was suspended indefinitely (MAAB No. 52). November 3. The importation of meat and canned sardines and mackerel was made subject to prior recom- mendation of the National Economic and Development Authority and the Executive Committee (MAAB No. 53). November 4. A priority system for import payments was introduced, as follows: (a) oil imports, and (b) trade- related payments for (i) inpu ts into export produc t ion, (ii) raw materials for v i tal domestic indus tr ies, and (iii) food grains. Release of foreign exchange by the Central Bank for the opening of letters of credit w i th in the priority system wou ld follow gu ide l ines established by the Central Bank in collaboration w i th the representa- tives of the Bankers' Association of the Ph i l ipp ines (Circular No. 970). Payments for Invisibles March 22. A regulation was introduced l im i t ing commercial banks' net foreign exchange ho ld ings to the sum of 20 percent of ou ts tand ing letters of credit and 25 percent of the foreign exchange received through the commercial banks, a sum defined to be equ iva lent to a three-month moving average based on data for the 12-month period preceding the current mon th, provided that it did not exceed the indus t ry average. The compo- nent of 25 percent of foreign exchange receipts indicated was scheduled to be reduced at the rate of 5 percent each month, so that by September 1983 the net foreign exchange position wh ich commercial banks could ma in- tain on any one bank ing day would be l im i ted on ly to 20 percent of outstanding letters of credit. Holdings in excess of the specified limit were required to be sold on a daily basis to the Central Bank (MAAB No. 19). June 3. M in imum mon th ly amoun ts were specified as follows for obligatory sales of foreign exchange to the Central Bank by authorized exchange dealers: (a) W i th effect from Ju ly 1, 1983 a basic amount of US$50,000 a month, or its equ iva lent in other foreign currencies; (b) US$100,000 a month for individual authorized foreign exchange dealers w i th an existing mon th ly quota of US$50,000; and (c) w i th effect from October 1, 1983, each authorized dealer's m in imum monthly quota on Ju ly 1, 1983 would be increased by US$50,000, such that the m in imum quota wou ld be $100,000 a mon th, or 396 the ex is t ing quota plus $100,000 as the case might be (Circular No. 933). June 13. The provisions of MAAB No. 43 (1982) governing the sale of foreign exchange for foreign travel were amended as follows: (a) The m in imum necessary amount of annual foreign exchange earnings for indi- v idual f irms to qua l i fy as an export for purposes of exchange allocation for business travel was raised from $250,000 to US$1 m i l l ion; (b) "foreign exchange earn- ings" as the basis for determination of travel allowances were defined as "net of foreign exchange expenses"; and (c) specified categories of corporate officials in the form of Director, Treasurer, Comptroller, Manager, and "any other officer of the corporation who may be authorized by the Board" were deleted from the list of eligible off ic ia ls for the purpose of foreign exchange allocation for business trave l. For nonbusiness travel, new regulations were in- troduced as follows: (a) Tourists w i th prepayment under package tour arrangements in the Philippines would be given a max imum foreign exchange allowance of US$500 for Area 1 and US$250 for Area 2, with no allowance in either case for children under 12 years traveling w i th their parents; (b) for other travel by children under 12 years, the ind iv idual allowance was reduced from one half to one fourth of the limits for adu l ts; and (c) the max imum allowance for emigrants w i th prearranged employment contracts was set at US$800 for Area 1 and US$500 for Area 2. (Area 1 was defined to include the United States and its territories, Canada, South America, Central America, Europe, Australia, Middle East, Africa, New Zealand, and Japan, wh i le Area 2 covered Hong Kong, Taiwan,t Korea, Singapore, Ma lays ia, Thailand, and other coun- tries and areas not included in Area 1 —MAAB No. 26.) November 2. Instructions were issued to authorized agent banks not to give due course to any application for the purchase of foreign exchange (including those for prizes and travel) filed by or on behalf of foreign entertainers, incoming or outgoing cultural groups, fashion or benefit shows, sports (golf, basketball, etc.), and other s im i lar undertakings considered as nonvital (MAAB No. 51). Capital January 17. Financial fu tures contracts by authorized agent banks were made subject to prior permission of the Central Bank (MAAB No. 3). May 24. Prior approval requirement was introduced for flotation by foreign branches of domestic banks of negotiable ins t rumen ts such as certificates of deposits (Circular No. 931). July 11. Approval for renewal of a maturing foreign exchange swap contract w i th the Central Bank was made subject to the fo l low ing provisions: (a) If the official gu id ing rate on the renewal date should be higher than the original forward rate, the swapping bank would be tSee Exp lana to ry Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 52. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution required to enter into a reverse purchase (R/P) arrange- ment with the Central Bank for the difference between the official gu id ing rate and the original forward rate applied to the foreign currency va lue of the swap; (b) arrangements for R/P wou ld be for a period not shorter than the renewal period, and would be at a rate of !/s of 1 percent above the effective cost of the renewed swap; and (c) an R/P arrangement wou ld be renewed on the subsequent renewal(s) of the swap contract, up to its final maturity (MAAB No. 28). October 15. Remittances of foreign exchange for repayment of principal on all foreign obligations of whatever maturity due to foreign banks or other f inanc ial institutions during the period October 17, 1983 to January 16, 1984 were made subject to prior approval by the Central Bank (MAAB No. 47). October 15. Authorized agent banks were instructed to ask their branches and other offices outside the Philippines to refer to their respective head offices and PHILIPPINES the Central Bank of the Philippines all demands for payment of loans, advances, placements, and deposits of foreign banks and f inanc ial in s t i tu t ions (MAAB No. 48). November 4. All the banks were required to sell to the Central Bank the ir fore ign exchange receipts from over- the-counter transactions (as well as from merchandise exports, services, and transfers), and other similar receipts as soon as possible after all such receipts were received by the banks. The foreign exchange receipts by the Central Bank were to be channeled into a pool from wh ich allocations wou ld be made in accordance w i th a specified list of priorities. In addition to import financ- ing, the priority system included payments in respect of (a) o f f ic ial development assistance loans, (b) interest paymen ts on bank loans, and (c) servicing of interbank loans and trade-related credits. (The surrender require- ment exempted receipts from funds in the form of foreign currency deposits under Circular Nos. 343 and 547.) 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese Escudo, the exchange rate of wh ich is adjusted at re la t ive ly short intervals in relation to a basket of currencies, we igh ted according to the ir importance in Portugal's in te rna t ional merchandise trade. Periodically the Bank of Portugal announces depreciation objectives for the effective ex- change rate of the escudo: the mon th ly rate of deprecia- t ion, wh ich was i n i t i a l ly set in May 1978 at 1.25 percent but was lowered progressively to 0.50 percent by J u ne 1980, was raised to 1 percent in March 1983. Fo l low ing the rea l ignment of EMS currencies, a downwa rd adjust- ment of 2 percent was made in the effec t ive rate of the escudo on March 23, 1983, and on J u ne 21, 1983 the escudo was devalued by 12 percent in terms of its effective exchange rate. On December 30, 1983 the authorized banks' buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U .S. dollar were Esc 131.277 and Esc 131.623, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other cu r renc ies' are quoted by the Bank of Portugal on the basis of U .S. do l lar rates in exchange markets abroad. There is a tax of 0.6 percent on all sales of foreign exchange. The Macao pataca is pegged to the Hong Kong do l lar at a pa r i ty rate of P 1.03 = HK$1. Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange w i th the Bank of Portugal. They are also no rma l ly allowed to deal in foreign exchange w i th banks abroad at the rates p reva i l ing in the Portuguese foreign exchange ma rke t. They are not allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves or to enter in to arbitrage operations in foreign markets. In dea l ing w i th t h e ir cus tomers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in convertible currencies for th e ir own accoun t. Purchases and sales of unquo ted currencies can be made on ly through an authorized bank ac t ing on a comm iss ion basis. Banks are required to ob ta in the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in fore ign currencies from residents or nonres iden ts and to ob ta in short-term credits abroad. The banks may use the ir foreign exchange ho ld ings for all au tho r ized purposes, but the M in i s t ry of Finance may set l im i ts on the use of these resources and, in certain c ircums tances, may require that foreign exchange assets be sold to the Bank of Portugal. The net foreign asset positions of the authorized banks and the ir gross foreign exchange holdings are subject to ce i l ings. Administration of Control Exchange controls are adm in is tered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the M in i s t ry of F inance, w i th the 'A u s t r i an sch i l l ing s, Be lg ian francs, Canad ian do l lars, Dan i sh kroner, deutsche ma rk, F inn i sh ma rkkaa, French f rancs, I t a l i an l i re, Irish pounds, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, Norweg ian kroner, pounds s ter l ing. Sou th A f r ican rand, Span ish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 398 assistance of the commerc ial banks authorized for this purpose. Foreign trade po l icy is fo rmu la ted and implemented by the M i n i s t ry of Commerce and Tourism; almost all foreign trade transactions are subject to prior registration w i th the M in i s t ry. The Director-General of Foreign Commerce in th is M in i s t ry is responsible for adm in is ter- ing trade controls. Impo rt and export bu l l e t ins are issued by a depar tment w i t h in the Directorate-General of Foreign Commerce or by other authorized executive depar tmen ts. State agencies unde r tak ing international trade transac t ions are requ ired to use Portuguese vessels. Prescription of Currency Transactions w i th Turkey are settled on a mon th ly basis th rough a c lea r ing account ma in ta ined in U.S. do l lars. Export transac t ions w i th other countries may be settled in the quoted currencies (see footnote 1) or in U .S. do l lars. (Canad ian do l lars, F inn i sh ma rkkaa, Irish pounds, Japanese yen. South A f r ican rand, and Spanish pesetas may on ly be used in transac t ions w i th the coun tr ies i s su ing the cu r rency .) Payments to nonresi- dents may be made by c red i t ing escudos to a nonresident accoun t, the open ing of w h i ch is subject to prior approval by the B ank of Portugal. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accoun ts in Escudos are divided into ( 1) Time Foreign Accounts in Escudos, for wh ich the open ing, deb i t ing, and c red i t ing are subject to special advance au tho r iza t ion of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos, wh ich m a y be opened, deb i ted, and credited w i t h o ut prior authorization of the B ank of Portugal for paymen ts for transactions au thor ized in escudos concern ing imports and exports of goods, services, and cap i tal between Portugal and fore ign coun tr ies and for transfers between such ac- counts. For all other deb it and credit operations, authori- zation of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of overdrafts on the accounts described above requires the au tho r iza t ion of the Bank of Por tuga l. Foreign Accounts in Escudos in the names of persons resident or dom ic i led in Tu rkey, w i th wh ich Portugal has a special c lear ing a r rangemen t, are opened, debited, and credited according to in s t ruc t ions issued by the Bank of Por tuga l. Special accounts in escudos have been established to wh ich must be credited those Portuguese bank notes that have been presented by foreign correspondents and are in excess of the amoun ts that may be credited to Demand Foreign Accoun ts in Escudos. These accounts may be debited on ly for paymen ts in escudos to residents, subject to the pr ior au tho r i z a t ion of the Bank of Portugal. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Deposit accounts in escudos may be opened by Portuguese emigrants. Such accounts may be in the form of current accounts, accounts requ i r ing advance notice of w i thdrawa l, or t ime accounts. W i thout prior au thor iza- tion from the Bank of Por tuga l, deposit accounts may be credited on ly w i th remittances from abroad received through the banking system or in the form of an in terna t ional postal order, the equ iva lent in escudos of external means of payment sold to credit in s t i tu t ions by emigrants, and interest due on such deposits. Deposit accounts may be debited w i thout restrictions. Nonresidents may open t ime foreign accounts in eight foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited w i th remittances from abroad and w i th the related interest due and may be debited w i thout res tr ic t ions. However, a nonresident w i sh ing to use the f u n ds on these accounts in Portugal is subject to the exchange regu la t ions cu r ren t ly in force. There are also provisions for resident accounts in foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are proh ib i ted or are allowed only under specific conditions, m a in ly for reasons of hea l th, p u b l ic order, and the p reven t ion of commercial f raud. Any phys ical or j u r i d i c al e n t i ty may be an importer; importers mu st have an impo rt en t i t le- ment and must pay income taxes r egu l a r ly. Prior registration (in the form of a "bulletin") is required for all imports va lued at over Esc 15,000. Impor ts of t e chn i c a l, sc ien t if ic or cu l tu ral books as we ll as book catalogs are exempt from prior registration if they do not exceed Esc 30,000 in each case. Most imports from all sources are effected on the basis of "bu l le t ins /' For impor ts free of q u a n t i t a t i ve restric- tion, the bu l le t in enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange. For impo r ts subject to restriction, the b u l l e t in is e q u i v a l e nt to an import license. The va l id i ty of the b u l l e t in is 3 mon ths for customs clearance purposes and 12 mon ths from the date of customs clearance for settlement purposes; in special cases, longer v a l id i ty periods may be gran ted. Personal baggage and imports of merchand ise, the v a lue of wh i ch do not exceed Esc 15,000, do not requ ire a b u l l e t i n, except when fo rm ing part of an order w i th a total v a l ue exceeding Esc 15,000 and provided they are not ex- pressly exc luded from th is ex emp t ion. Impo r ts of books up to Esc 20,000 and of newspapers and techn ica l, sc ien t if ic, or cu l tu ral periodicals up to Esc 60,000 are also exempt from the b u l l e t i n s. Paymen ts beyond one year after customs clearance requ ire the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Imports of certain items, such as unassembled auto- mobiles, household app l iances, and f r u i t s, are subject temporarily to quota l im i t a t ions in va lue terms. Goods not on the negative l ist may be imported free ly from most countries that are members of the GATT. The negative list includes certain foods tuffs and other ag- ricultural products, certain n a tu r al or m anu f a c tu r ed raw PORTUGAL ma te r ia ls, some t ex t i le f ibers, and a sma ll number of finished products, inc lud ing motor vehicles; the items on the l i st are subject to q u a n t i t a t i ve restrictions for protec- t ive reasons or are und er special regimes. A somewhat more extensive nega t ive l ist app l ies to Japan. The GATT l ibe ra l iza t ion does not app ly to Ghana and Nigeria; imports from these GATT members of goods that would be l ibe ra l ized if imported from other GATT countries are sub ject to i n d i v i d u al au tho r i z a t ion, wh ich is granted on the me r i ts of the case. Non l ibe ra l ized imports from coun t r ies that are GATT members are adm i t ted under ind iv idual au tho r iza t ion. All imports from countries that are not members of the GATT are based on ind iv idu al au thor iza t ions; imports from some Eastern European coun t r ies are gene ra l ly licensed in accordance w i th b i la te ral t r ad ing arrangemen ts. There are a few b i la teral quo tas for specified agri- c u l t u r al impor ts from certain EFTA coun tr ies. Imports of non l ibera l ized indus t r ial products, except for certain protected steel products and au tomob i les, are free of q u a n t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ion when o r ig ina t ing in EFTA or EC coun t r ies. Special leg is la t ion provides that auto- mobiles must be assembled in Po r tuga l, and the assem- bly is subject to the use of certain m i n im um percentages of domes t ic componen ts. However, imports of passenger au tomob i les of non-EFTA and non-EC o r ig in are allowed up to 15 u n i ts a producer a year for those makes not assembled in Portugal and, for other makes, up to 2 percent of the number of vehicles of the same make that were assembled in Portugal in the preceding year. Imports of some makes of EFTA and EC origin were allowed up to 500 u n i ts for each producer in 1982 and are allowed up to 600 u n i ts for each producer in 1983. Imports of commerc ial vehicles for special purposes are free of res tr ic t ions. Domestic credit f inanc ing is restricted for certain impo r ts and fore ign f i n a n c i ng is required for certain impor ts. M i n i m um propor t ions of fore ign f inanc ing and m i n im um repayment terms are prescribed by the Bank of Por tuga l. M any impor ts are subject to a temporary import surcharge of 10 percent or 60 percent of the customs v a lu e, irrespective of o r ig in. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts to fore ign coun t r ies for cu r rent inv is ib les must be made th rough au thor ized banks and are gener- a l ly free of q u a n t i t a t i ve restrictions, but for most transactions ceilings are specified for the amounts of foreign exchange that au tho r ized banks may grant freely. For paymen ts to coun t r ies w i th wh ich Portugal does not m a i n t a in special c lea r ing arrangemen ts, the autho- rized banks may grant foreign exchange up to the equ iva lent of Esc 50,000 a transaction for most types of inv i s ib le s, and the l icen s ing centers (established in con t in en t al Portugal and the Azores) of those banks may grant up to the equ iv a l ent of Esc 1 m i l l ion. For tour ism and other p r iva te travel they may grant to persons 18 years of age or over the equ iva lent of Esc 30,000 a person a year, Esc 22,500 for persons between 12 and 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 18, and Esc 15,000 for ch i ldren under 12; in add i t ion, tourists may take out of the country Esc 5,000 in local currency for each tr ip. The export of larger amoun ts of domestic or foreign currency requires the prior au tho r i- zation of the Bank of Portugal. App l ica t ion must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for paymen ts of items not referred to above and for paymen ts in excess of the above-mentioned l im i t s. Under the provisions of the Foreign Inves tment Code, ind iv idual remittances of profits and d iv idends may be subject to phasing for a period of up to one year, depending on the p reva i l ing balance of paymen ts situa- tion. Phased amounts awaiting remittance may be depos- ited w i th domestic banks in accounts denom ina ted in foreign exchange. Special provisions apply to s i tua t ions of serious external imbalance, or when the amount involved is so large as to be deemed to en ta il serious economic and f inanc ial d is turbance to the coun t ry; in such cases, ind iv idu al remittances of profits and d iv i- dends may be suspended for a period of t ime to be determined by the Council of M in is ters, but annual remittance of at least 20 percent of the amount invo lved shall always be authorized. By the end of 1983, these special provisions were, however, not in force. Exports and Export Proceeds Prior registration is required for all exports valued at over Esc 15,000. Exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (s im i lar to the import b u l l e t i n s ). Export bu l le t ins are issued free ly, w i th few exceptions; the primary purpose of th is procedure is to enforce the prescription of currency and surrender regu la t ions. The export of a few commodities is restricted, m a i n ly to assure adequate supp l ies to domestic indus t r ies and to avoid depletion of local resources. Personal baggage and exports of merchandise, the va lue of w h i ch do not exceed Esc 15,000, do not requ ire a b u l l e t i n, provided they are not expressly excluded from th is exemp t ion. Re- exports of merchandise are exempt from prior registra- tion, regardless of their va lue. Exporters are required to sell to an au thor ized bank the total amount of the export proceeds, w i t h in the period and in the foreign currency s t ipu la ted in the export bu l l e t in; the period for repatriation of export proceeds is, as a ru le, fixed at four mon ths from the date of customs clearance. Should se t t lement for exports occur later than four mon ths after customs clearance, the exchange rate prevailing on the last day of the fou r -mon th period from the date of customs clearance would be app l ied. The Bank of Portugal may au thor ize the deduc t ion of commission expenses abroad and fre igh t, insurance, or other charges from the total amount subject to surrender. Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may receive freely paymen ts in foreign currency for inv is ib les from residents of coun- tries w i th wh ich Portugal does not have bilateral pay- ments arrangements. Such receipts may be effected through credit ins t i tu t ions and do not require prior 400 au thor iza t ion by the Bank of Portugal. Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Nonres ident travelers may br ing in freely up to Esc 5,000 in domestic bank notes and any amount in bank notes, co in, and checks denominated in foreign currency for the ir travel expenses; imports of notes and coin by nonres iden ts for other purposes require authori- zation by the Bank of Portugal, and the re-export by nonres ident travelers of foreign currency in excess of Esc 25,000 requires proof of prior importation of an equal or larger amoun t. Re tu rn ing residents may bring in up to Esc 5,000 in domestic bank notes and any amount in foreign bank notes and coin. Authorized banks are not perm i t ted to receive or to pay domestic or foreign bank notes or coin for se t t lement of external transactions. Capital All pr iva te cap i tal transactions between Portugal and foreign countries are subject to prior authorization by the Bank of Por tuga l, and for transactions exceeding Esc 500 m i l l i on and w i th a m a tu r i ty of more than one year, the approval of the M in i s ter of Finance also is requ i red. Foreign direct investments in Portugal are authorized on the basis of the Foreign Inves tment Code. Such inves tmen ts are perm i t ted in all sectors except those w h i c h, under the general law, are closed to private enterprise corporations. An Exchange Risk Insurance Fund provides exchange risk insurance against losses caused by exchange rate movements in excess of 3 per- cent on approved fore ign borrowing. When the t rans fer abroad of the proceeds from the l i q u i d a t i on of foreign inves tmen ts involves large amoun ts the Bank of Portugal may require that the transfer be phased over a period not exceeding five years. In such cases, exchange risk guarantees may be provided. Foreign loans and the ir repayments are autho- rized as necessary. Cap i tal movemen ts and transfers of assets are subject to ceilings (up to wh ich they are authorized auto- m a t i c a l ly ), according to Portugal's reservations to the OECD code of l ib e r a l i z a t ion of capital movements. For larger amoun ts au tho r iza t ions may be granted on the mer i ts of each case. Direct transactions in foreign exchange between residents are prohibited. Gold Residents may hold gold in any form in Portugal. The purchase, sale, impo r t, export, or re-export of bu l l ion or coined and unwo rked go ld, when carried out between Portugal and foreign countries, is subject to special advance au tho r iza t ion from the Bank of Portugal. There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and nonresidents who are not resident in Portugal may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins. In Macao, the Government sets overall l im i ts for imports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry; au tho r i ty to carry out such imports is delegated to a concessionary enterprise. Imports and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement March 23. Following the rea l ignment of EMS curren- cies, the escudo was allowed to depreciate by 2 percent in terms of its effective rate. In add i t ion, the month- ly rate of depreciation of the escudo was raised from 0.75 percent to 1 percent. May 27. Laws and regulations on exchange operations were updated and compiled in a single document (Decree-Law No. 227/83). June 21. The escudo was devalued by 12 percent in terms of its effective exchange rate. October 21. The tax on sales of foreign exchange was raised from 0.5 percent to 0.6 percent (Law No. 32/83). Administration of Control July 25. Responsibility for foreign trade policy was transferred from the Ministry of Industry to the Ministry of Commerce and Tourism (Decree-Law No. 344-A/83). PORTUGAL Imports and Import Payments January 21. Several import items were exempted from the import surcharge and from the quota system but made subject to basic import tar iffs (Decree-Law No. 13/83). February 1. The 10 percent import surcharge was raised to 30 percent (Decree-Law No. 54/83). February 28. The import surcharge system was extended u n t il December 31, 1983 (Decree-Law No. 119-A/83, Ar t ic le 29). June 9. Import value quotas were introduced for certain nonessential consumer goods for the period through March 31, 1984 (Government Order No. 673- A/83). August 10. Imports of techn ica l, sc ien t if ic, or cu l tural books, as well as book catalogs not exceeding Esc 30,000 in each case, were exempted from prior registration requ iremen ts. Capital September 6. The m a x im um amount of ind iv idual pr iva te capital transactions that could be effected w i thout the approval of the Minister of Finance was raised from Esc 200 m i l l ion to Esc 500 m i l l ion (Order No. 873/83). 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Qatar is the Qatar R i y a l, wh ich is pegged to the SDR at QR 4.7619 = SDR 1. Qatar has established margins of 7.25 percent around th is rate. The Qatar Monetary Agency sets daily market rates for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, and the pound sterling. The commercial banks' exchange rates for transac- tions in U .S. dollars are based on the Monetary Agen- cy's buy ing and selling rates. A spread of 0.87 d irham is applied to exchange transactions w i th the pub l ic. The commercial banks' b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for the U .S. dollar and market rates for the currency concerned against the U.S. dollar. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Qatar formally accepted the obligations of A r t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, w i th effect from June 4, 1973. Administration of Control The Qatar Monetary Agency is the exchange control authority, but there is at present no exchange control legislation. Import licenses are issued by the M in i s t ry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements w i th Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- hibited. Also prohibited are imports of pork and its derivatives. Imports of alcoholic beverages, firearms, ammun i t ion, and certain drugs are subject to l icens ing for reasons of health or pub l ic policy. Otherwise, imports are not restricted. There are no restrictions on paymen ts for permitted imports. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and South Afr ica are prohibited. Otherwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatri- ated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments may not be made to or received from Israel and South Africa. Otherwise, there are no limitations on paymen ts for and proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, a l though paymen ts may not be made to or received from Israel and South A f r ica. Foreign participation in certain indus t r ial enterprises is prohibited unless Qatar nationals control at least 51 percent of the shares. For major indus t r ial projects, it is government policy to assume a m i n im um of 70 percent ownership. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents ( in c lud ing private persons) may freely and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. For trading purposes, the selling and buy ing of gold and precious metals are subject to import license and customs du ty. Transactions invo lv ing Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Changes During 1983 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 402 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement1 The currency of Romania is the Roman ian Leu. The official exchange rate for the leu is lei 4.47 per US$1 and lei 6.67 per rub 1. As part of the exchange rate and price reform started on January 1, 1981 the importance of the official exchange rate has been greatly reduced. While in the past the official exchange rates were used for planning and accounting purposes, at present the only func t ion of the official exchange rate is to serve as a reference point in various categories of transactions for which the applicable exchange rates are defined as the official exchange rate p lus an appropriate prem ium. The exchange rate used for all trade transactions in convert- ible currencies is the commercial rate, wh ich is defined in terms of a basket of six currencies reflecting the geographical pattern of Romania's trade and payments. Weekly adjustments are made in the leu-U.S. dollar rate (and correspondingly in the rates for all other quoted currencies) in such a way as to maintain the central point on the basket peg. On December 31, 1983 the commer- cial exchange rate was lei 18.33 = US$1. The Na t ional Bank of Romania quotes rates for 16 other currencies defined as "fully convertible"2 and for the F inn ish markka, the Greek drachma, the Ind ian rupee, the Israel shekel, the Portuguese escudo, the Spanish peseta, the Turkish lira, and the Yugoslav d inar, based on the rates for these currencies against the U .S. dollar in the countries concerned. For currencies of other countries, exchange rates are based on rates quoted in Roman ia for third currencies; for members of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA),3 A lban ia, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the third cur- rency used for this purpose is the transferable ruble. For exchange rate purposes, payments for insurance and transportation connected with trade are considered as trade transactions. With the exception of payments and receipts for travel arranged through tourist organizations, which are considered commercial transactions, and of most capital transactions (excluding transfer of inher- itances), nontrade exchange transactions are carried out at the noncommercial exchange rate, w i th the exception of those with member countries of the CMEA, A lban ia, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Capital transactions other than those w i th the latter group of countries are settled at the commercial rate. The non- commercial rate is pegged to the same basket of 'On January 1, 1984 the commercial rate of the leu was adjusted downward by 15 percent against the ex i s t ing level on the basket peg, resulting in a rate of lei 21.56 = US$1. 2Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Irish pounds, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 3The participants in the CMEA are Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Repub l ic, Hunga ry, Mongolia, Poland, Roman ia, U .S .S .R ., and Viet Nam. currencies as the commercial rate and is also adjusted on a weekly basis; the rate was lei 14.13 = US$1 on December 31, 1983.4 For the nontransport component of the expenses for ind iv idual travel to nonsocialist countries and Yugo- slavia and for certain other expenditures abroad, such as personal subscriptions to periodicals and legal penalties, a 100 percent tax is levied on foreign exchange pur- chased, mak ing lei 28.26 = US$1 on December 31, 1983. For nontrade transactions w i th the CMEA coun- tries, A lban ia, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, special exchange rates are established by multila- teral or bilateral agreement; for transactions with the U .S .S .R ., this rate is lei 8.30 per rub 1. For persons working abroad in technical assistance jobs or as professionals, such as medical doctors, daily allowances are paid in foreign exchange, and any accumulated surpluses can be converted into lei at the noncommercial exchange rate. Romanians working in international organizations or jo int ventures, as well as those occasionally receiving foreign exchange income, are required to repatriate a part of it as a contribution to the fund for training of staff involved in international cooperation and for the maintenance of their families at home. Administration of Control Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and export transactions are effected by foreign trade enterprises and other authorized un i t s. Import and export transactions are subject to authorizations granted by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Cooperation. In the issuing of authorizations the provisions of existing trade agreements are taken into account. Foreign cur- rency proceeds from exports are sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade; foreign currency required for import payments is purchased from that bank. Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance, the Na t ional Bank, and the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Romania has bilateral payments agreements are made in curren- cies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.5 If no agreement exists, settlement is 4The noncommercial rate of the leu was not adjusted in connection w i th the depreciation of the commercial rate on January 1, 1984 (see footnote 1). 5The countries w i th wh ich bilateral payments agreements were in force as of December 31, 1983 were A lban ia, Bangladesh, Brazil, People's Republic of Ch ina, Colombia, Ecuador, Ghana, India, Islamic Repub l ic of Iran, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam. Settlements w i th Bu lgar ia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Repub l ic, Hunga ry, Mongolia, Poland, and U.S.S.R. take place through the mu l t i la te ral payments system w i th in the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA usually made in a convertible currency. Certain commer- cial settlements w i th Turkey are made in U .S. dollars under a credit agreement. Permitted foreign paymen ts may not be made in lei. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may ma in ta in accounts with the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, the National Bank, or w i th foreign banks hav ing branch offices in Romania. These accounts are of three k inds: A-Accounts are maintained in convertible currency, or in lei obtained for convertible currencies, from the se l l ing of precious metals, coins, or ingots, other than silver; B-Accounts are maintained in nonconvertible currencies quoted by the National Bank, in clearing currency, or in lei received from the conversion of such currencies. Transactions in any individual B-Account may be ef- fected in only one such currency. C-Accounts are maintained in lei received from other legal sources. A-Accounts may be debited for payments abroad in any currency, for payments w i th in the coun t ry, and for transfers to any other A -, B -, or C-Account. B-Accoun ts may be debited for all payments abroad in the currencies from which the funds were derived and for payments within Romania. C-Accounts may be debited only for domestic transactions. The transactions permitted for the different accounts do not require any fur ther authoriza- tion. Nonresidents may also keep accounts in lei w i th the Savings and Consignment Bank. The Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade may accept from nonresident custom- ers time deposits in convertible foreign currencies, on which interest is paid at rates prevailing in international markets. Romanian citizens, inc lud ing Roman ians work ing abroad who transfer their savings to Roman ia, may open foreign currency accounts w i th the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade or the National Bank. The deposits may be used for payments in foreign currency, at home or abroad, or for exchange into lei at the noncommercial exchange rate. The entire amount of foreign exchange received from abroad for special purposes for the benef it of Romanian citizens (such as the bu i ld ing or purchas ing of a house, the purchase of an au tomob i le, the purchase of other goods or services whose prices are expressed in foreign currency, travel abroad, and other purposes) may be used by the recipients. For certain other foreign exchange receipts from abroad, such as inher i tances, donations, assistance, or family ma in tenance, a propor- tion may be deposited in a foreign currency account and the rest must be converted into lei at the noncommercial exchange rate. Imports and Exports The administrative framework for p lann ing and ex- ecuting foreign trade in Roman ia is provided in the Foreign Trade Law (Law No. 12 of December 1980). International economic activity is organized and carried 404 out in accordance w i th the principle of working people's self-management and self-administration of economic, f inanc ia l, and foreign exchange. The general policy targets for foreign trade are set at the central leve l. Import and export plans are drawn up by the basic economic u n i t s, production enterprises, and indus tr ial centrals on the basis of current and long-term needs. The foreign trade plan specifies only a limited number of goods considered of particular importance for the national economy, especially raw materials. The total planned trade does not separate importing or export- ing countries but d is t ingu ishes between the clearing area and the convertible currency area, according to the manner of settlement of exchange payments and receipts. Import and export transactions are carried out on the basis of au thor iza t ions issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and In terna t ional Economic Cooperation, for each commodity or group of commodities. The authorizations are not restrictive or discriminatory and may be issued, at the request of foreign trade un i ts, for all types of goods, regardless of or ig in. The Ministry may take measures to cu rb imports w i th a view to equilibrating the balance of paymen ts, for the protection of public health, for reasons of national defense and the security of the State, e tc ., in accordance w i th the provisions of the GATT. As a ru le, annual import authorizations ex- pressed in va lue terms are issued to ind iv idual importing enterprises as a lump sum or for a single kind of product. The au thor iza t ion stipulates whether import payments are to be made in convertible currency or under bilateral payments arrangements, and, in the latter case, the coun try is also specified. Export proceeds must be sold to the Roman ian Bank for Foreign Trade. Imports for inves tment in complex installations (as- semblies, subassemb l ies, mach ine ry, equipment, and spare parts) are delivered to the buy ing un i ts at domestic prices wh ich are equal to the customs value (calculated by mu l t ip ly ing the external price by the commercial rate) p lus customs du t ies. Imports of consumer goods are delivered to the commercial purchas ing un i ts at retail prices less the commercial discount. The difference between prices so derived and prices calculated on the basis of customs va lue p lus customs duties and, in some cases, the turnover tax, is reflected in the financial accounts of the importing foreign trade un i t. Imports are subject to customs du t ies, although duties are not applied to 121 tariff positions and subpositions. Customs du t ies are temporarily not being levied on imports of raw materials, assemblies, subassemblies, and spare parts for produc t ion, repair, and maintenance, to ta l ing about 500 tar iff positions and subpositions. The 5The coun t r ies w i th wh ich b i la teral paymen ts agreements were in force as of December 3 1, 1983 were A l b a n i a, Bang ladesh, Braz i l, Peop le's R e p u b l ic of C h i n a, Co lomb ia, Ecuador, Ghana, Ind ia, I s lam ic R e p u b l ic of I r a n, Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, and V iet N am. Se t t lemen ts w i th B u l g a r i a, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic R e p u b l i c, H u n g a r y, Mongo l ia, Poland, and U .S .S .R. take place t h r o u gh the m u l t i l a t e r al paymen ts system w i t h in the International Bank for Econom ic Cooperation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution customs tariff is nondiscriminatory. Decree No. 337'/ 1981 issued on November 26, 1981 increased tariffs on personal imports of certain items into Romania above the value limits for the specified goods. The import goods prohibited to individuals include passenger cars w i th high fuel consumption, m in ibuses, firearms, and air conditioners. Customs duties on personal imports of a number of consumer durables, such as motorcycles and electrical appliances, are levied at rates of between 100 percent and 300 percent above the applicable customs tariff. Invisibles All transactions in invisibles not connected w i th foreign trade transactions require general or ind iv idual authorization given by either the Ministry of Finance or another appropriate m in is try. For most categories of payments in respect of invisibles, foreign exchange is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. For travel outside the socialist countries an exchange allocation is provided up to the equ iva lent of US$70 a trip for each adu l t. In addition, tourist agencies may organize group or ind iv idual trips payable in lei. Receipts from transactions in invisibles must be sold to the Romanian Bank for Foreign Trade, and the foreign currency required for payments in respect of such transactions is bought from the same bank. With specified exceptions, travelers w i th permanent residence in nonsocialist countries must convert at least US$10 a person a day (or the equ iva lent in other "acceptable" currencies)6 during their stay in Romania. This requirement does not apply to (a) holders of diplomatic and service passports and their fam i l ies; (b) newspaper and radio and television correspondents accredited to Romania and the ir fam i l ies; (c) persons studying in Romania and the ir spouses; (d) permanent foreign personnel of foreign f irms or agencies authorized to operate in Romania (including joint ventures) and their families; (e) guests of socialist un i ts and of other juridical persons in Romania, as well as of international organizations hav ing their headquarters in Roman ia; (f) children under 14; (g) teachers v is i t ing Romania under agreements for cu l tu ra l, techn ica l, and sc ien t if ic cooperation and their families; (h) persons who can be shown to have made payments for tourist services; (i) foreign personnel in assembly works or prov id ing technical assistance in Romania and their families; (j) persons of Romanian origin hav ing foreign citizen- ship or who are stateless; (k) Romanian citizens pos- sessing a valid Romanian passport who are domiciled abroad; (1) persons resident abroad without a valid Romanian passport, but who have not renounced the ir 6The acceptable currencies, in add i t ion to the U.S. do l la r, are Australian dollars, Aus tr ian s ch i l l ing s, Be lg ian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Greek drachmas, Ind ian rupees, Israel sheke ls, I t a l i an l i re, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Ne the r lands gu i lde rs, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds s ter l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Turkish liras, and Yugoslav d in a r s. ROMANIA Roman ian citizenship; and (m) parents, spouses, and children of persons in categories (j)-(l). Foreign diplo- mats and tour is ts, as well as Roman ian citizens legally ho ld ing foreign currencies, may purchase certain domes- t ica l ly produced or imported consumer goods in special- ized shops, against payment in convertible currencies. The import and export of Roman ian notes and coin by travelers are prohibited, w i th the exception of those coming from CMEA member countries, Albania, and Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea; they may each bring in or take out up to lei 500 a trip in accordance with agreements concluded w i th these countries. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign exchange must be authorized by the M in is t ry of Finance. Outward transfers of f u n ds be long ing to resident physical persons are not no rma l ly permitted. For certain established categories, such as inher i tances, reciprocal agreements have been concluded w i th a number of countries prov id ing for au toma t ic authorization of transfers of specified amounts to and from Romania. The Foreign Trade Law provides for the establishment of jo int ventures in Romania and abroad by Romanian economic organizations. Foreigners are also allowed to invest capital in jo int ventures in Romania, up to 49 percent of the total capital of the company concerned. The Foreign Trade Law and imp lemen t ing decrees guarantee the repatriation in foreign currency of the cap i ta l, and the transfer in foreign currency of profits after taxes. By agreement, the accounts of jo int ventures may be kept in an agreed currency. Gold The Na t ional Bank has sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any manne r, at home or abroad. The Bank, in tu rn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transactions. The ownership by physical persons, for domestic and personal use, of jewe lry and of a r t is t ic and cu l tu ral objects of gold is not restricted. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement January I. The fo l low ing ad jus tmen ts were made in the exchange rate system: (a) the commercial rate was changed from lei 15 = US$1 to lei 16.5 = US$1, representing a devaluation of 9.1 percent; (b) the noncommerc ial rate was changed from lei 11 = US$1 to lei 12.5 = US$1 ( thus ma in ta in ing the margin of lei 4 between the two rates); and (c) the leu-transferable ruble (TR) rate was adjusted from lei 15 = TR I to lei 16.5 = TR 1. The transactions to wh ich the commercial rate wou ld be applied were specified as all imports and exports, w i th the exception of a number of agricultural export products for wh ich a separate rate of lei 19 = US$1 was maintained. July I. The commercial exchange rate was adjusted to lei 17.5 = US$1 (a devaluation of 5.7 percent), and application of the rate was extended to all convertible 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA trade transactions. In addition, the peg for the commer- cial rate was switched from the U .S. dollar to a basket of six currencies based on the geographical pattern of Romanian trade and paymen ts. Each week ad ju s tmen ts would be made in the leu-U.S. dollar rate (and corre- spondingly for all other quoted currencies) in such a way as to ma in ta in the central point on the basket peg. The noncommercial rate, wh ich was depreciated to a rate of lei 13.5 = US$1, was also pegged to the same basket of currencies. In line w i th the change in the commercial exchange rate against the U .S. dollar, the leu-TR rate was adjusted to lei 17.5 per TR 1. 406 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Rwanda is the Rwanda Franc, w h i ch is pegged to the SDR at RF 102.71 = SDR 1. Th is f ixed relationship is used to de te rm ine the m idpo int between buy ing and selling exchange rates quoted by the Banque Nationale du Rwanda (the central b ank) for spot de l ive ry of Rwanda francs against the U .S. dollar and other currencies. Calculations of exchange rates against o ther currencies are based on the fixed va lue of the SDR in terms of Rwanda francs and the SDR v a l ue of the U.S. dollar and other currencies pub l i shed by the Fund two business days earlier. On December 31, 1983 the m idpo int between the buy ing and se l l ing rate for spot delivery of Rwanda francs against the U .S. do l lar was RF 98.54 per US$1. The buy ing and se l l ing rates for all currencies are set 1 percent below and 1 percent above the m idd le rate, respectively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transac t ions and foreign trade is vested in the Na t ional B ank of Rwanda (the central bank ); au tho r i ty to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to au thor ized bank s. Exchange policy and foreign trade policy are, in p r in c ip l e, deter- mined by the General Foreign Exchange and L icen s ing Committee, wh ich comprises the M in i s ter of F inance, the Governor of the Na t ional B a n k, and f ive other members; however, th is Committee is inope ra t ive. Prescription of Currency The Na t ional Bank has conc luded agreements w i th the central banks of ne ighbo r ing coun t r ies and Kenya, under which se t t lemen ts are made th rough reciprocal accounts in convertible domestic currency. Balances on such accounts are per iod ica l ly transferab le. Otherwise, pay- ments for imports must be made in the currency approved by the Na t ional Bank, wh i ch, in p r i n c i p l e, is the currency of the country of origin. Payments from any coun try may be received in Be lg ian francs, Canad ian dollars, deutsche m a rk, French f rancs, Japanese y en, Ne ther lands gu i lde rs, pounds s te r l ing, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. Foreign paymen t s, except in border trade, are generally made by bank transfer; the N a t ion al B ank may, however, au thor ize other means of payment such as checks or telegraphic transfers. Exchange t ran sac t ions w i th South Afr ica are p roh ib i ted. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports of a few types of goods, such as exp los ives and weapons, from all sources require prior au tho r i z a t ion, for reasons of pub l ic security. Imports of narcotics are p roh ib i ted. All imports va lued at over RF 100,000 c. & f. K i g a li require licenses, as do those va lued at less than RF 100,000 c. & f. K i g a l i, if payment is required in fore ign exchange. No license is required for the import of merchand ise va lued at or below RF 100,000 c. & f. K i g a l i, when paid for in Rwanda francs. Imports of househo ld goods and personal effects of nonresidents and res ident expa tr ia tes are also exemp t. For a number of consumer goods, mos t ly of a l u x u ry na ture, the va l ida t ion of import licenses for payment in foreign exchange is subject to the requ iremen ts for a noninterest- bear ing deposit of 50 percent or 100 percent of the c. & f. v a lue of the impo r ts, depend ing on the goods. The deposits are held by the Na t ional Bank of Rwanda for the period between the va l ida t ion of the import license and the customs clearance of the goods. Exempt from the impo rt deposit ob l iga t ion are imports of gove rnment bodies and imports of food and beverages by the hotels. The Na t ional B ank levies a va l ida t ion fee of 1 percent of the f .o .b. va lue on import licenses that invo lve use of o f f ic ial fore ign exchange and on import licenses that are subject to the control of the Societe Generate de Su rve i l lance (SGS) of Geneva. The v a l id a t ion of other import licenses is subject to a processing fee of RF 350 in each case. Before orders are placed, app l ica t ions for import licenses mu st be sub- m i t ted to the Na t ional Bank th rough an authorized bank. Un less o therw ise specified, the approval of an import license app l ica t ion cons t i tu tes an au tho r iza t ion to obtain the required foreign exchange. The N a t ion al Bank gran ts global import licenses for cer ta in essen t ial commod i t ies and for l im i ted amoun ts to i n d i v i d u al f i rms in order to ensure the ir con t inuous operation; these are va l id for three mon ths (six mon ths in the case of veh ic le parts). Global licenses cannot cover both goods subm i t ted to the import deposit and goods exemp ted from it. Licenses are exam ined at the Na t ional Bank to avoid ov e r invo i c ing. Any impor ter app ly ing for a license must do so on the appropriate form and state th at when pay ing for the impor ts he w i ll not exceed the cred it l im it no rm a l ly allowed under the regulations. Dealers in imported automobiles must be registered as such by the N a t ion al B ank. Used au tomob i les can be impor ted on ly if they are less than three years old, and the impo r ter has to assure the a v a i l a b i l i ty of spare parts. Impor ts whose f .o .b. va lue on the pro forma invoice is greater than RF 1.5 m i l l i on in the case of ord inary licenses and RF 0.5 m i l l i on in the case of g lobal licenses are inspected by the SGS for q u a l i ty and q u a n t i ty in the coun t ry of o r i g i n' p r ior to sh ipm en t, and at the same t ime 'Except for impo r ts from A f g h a n i s t a n, A l b a n i a, B u r u n d i, Came- roon, Cen t ral A f r i c an R e p u b l i c, Chad, People's R e p u b l ic of Ch ina, Comoros, D j i b o u t i, Gabon, G u i n e a, I raq, Democratic People's Re- p u b l ic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic R e p u b l i c, Liberia, L ibyan A rab J am a h i r i y a, M a l i, N ige r, Seyche l les, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sy r ian A rab R e p u b l i c. Tanzan ia, Uganda, U . S . S .R ., Upper Vo l ta, V iet N am, Yemen A rab R e p u b l i c, People's Democratic R epub l ic of Yemen, ZaYre, and Z imb abw e. 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA prices are ver if ied. Import licenses mu st be presented when the goods are cleared through customs, and a copy of the customs clearance form must be sent to the Na t ional Bank. For imports of products o r ig in a t ing in member countries of the Economic Commun i ty of the Great Lakes Countries (CEPGL), import l icenses are replaced by CEPGL import notices. The Rwanda inves t- ment code grants special concessions to enterprises under a con trac tual a r rangemen t, wh i ch may imp ly exemption from import du t ies on certain types of equ ipmen t. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the Na t ional Bank is requ i red for all paymen ts for inv i s ib le s. Foreign exchange is sold by the Na t ional B a n k, th rough the au thor ized b ank s, for (1) transport and other expenses (except in su r an c e) connected w i th imports and exports; (2) t rans fe rs of the salaries or wages earned by fore ign na t iona ls employed in Rwanda under contract (net of taxes, net of the employee's share of social secu r i ty c o n t r i b u t i o n s, and after deduction of an amount for local expenses equ iva- lent to 40 percent of net pay af ter t ax, w i th a m i n im um of RF 50,000 a mon th and a l im it of RF 70,000 a mon th for a head of househo ld p lus RF 20,000 a mon th for each dependent in Rwanda, wh ichever is h ighe r; and (3) transfers of the net earned income of fo re ign nationals who are self-employed or engaged in a profes- sion or es tab l ished as independent traders (also net of taxes and after deduc t ion for local expenses). A fee of RF 350 is levied for a t rans fer au tho r iza t ion. Paymen ts in respect of transport charges on imports cannot be made un t il imported goods have been cleared th rough cus toms (except in cases of payment by means of documen ta ry credit payable on load ing ). Insu rance on imports and exports mu st be taken out loca l ly, w i th an in su r an ce company cons t i tu ted under Rw anda l aw. Net prof i ts and d iv idends due to nonresidents may, in p r i n c i p l e, be remitted abroad in f u l l, subject to the r ight of the Na t ional Bank to prescribe the ir t rans fer in i n s t a l lm e n t s. The purchase in domestic currency of t icke ts for t ravel abroad requ ires the prior approval of the Na t ional B a n k. Au tho r iza t ions for the purchase of fore ign exchange for tickets and foreign exchange relating to travel for reasons of le isu re, vaca t ion, f am i l y, re l ig ion, conferences or sports are suspended u n t il fu r ther no t ice. Travel for bus iness and o f f ic ial purposes is restricted to the essen- t ial m i n im um, and fore ign residents wo rk ing in Rw a n da are allowed on ly one a i r l ine t icket every two years, more than one tr ip be ing pe rm iss ib le on ly if the total cost of tickets does not exceed that of one f u l l - f a re t i ck e t. Rem i t tances for paymen ts for certain other inv i s ib l es may be au thor ized on an ad hoc bas is. Travelers may take out domestic bank notes up to RF 5,000. Residents require au tho r iza t ion by the Na- tional Bank to take out foreign bank notes. Non r e s id ent travelers may take out any amount in fore ign bank notes 408 declared upon en try less the amount of the ir expend i tures in Rwanda. Commercial banks are not permitted to export domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Expor ts to Sou th A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. All exports, except trade samp les, personal and household effects of t rave le rs, and me rchand ise va lued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to prior dec la ra t ion. Declarations for all exports mu st be presented to the Na t ional Bank th rough an au tho r ized bank for ce r t i f ica t ion, for wh ich a fee of RF 350 is lev ied. A dec la ra t ion is va l id for three mon th s, but ex ten s ions may be granted by the National B a n k, wh i ch also reserves the r ight to de term ine the cond i t ions for ce r t i f ica t ion. For exports to Bu rund i, K e n y a, Tanzan ia, Ug and a, and Zaire, payment must be collected not la ter than 30 days af ter the goods have left the coun t ry; th is dead l ine is not applicable to exports under CEPGL export notices, for wh i ch there is a qua r te r ly c lea r ing arrangement among the central banks. The m a x im um pe rm i s s ib le period for repatriation of proceeds from exports to all other coun tr ies is 180 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an au tho r ized b ank w i t h in 8 days from their co l lec t ion. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from inv is ib les must be surrendered to the au thor ized banks w i t h in 8 days from the ir collection. The co l lec t ion of c l a ims r e su l t ing from services per- formed for non re s iden ts mu st take place w i t h in 30 days of the date on w h i ch the c la im f a l ls due. Travelers may b r i ng in up to RF 5,000 in domes t ic bank notes and any amount in fo re ign bank notes. All means of payment mu st be declared on en te r ing Rw and a. Commercial banks are not pe rm i t ted to import domes t ic bank notes. Capital All ou twa rd t ran s fe rs of cap i tal requ ire the prior approval of the N a t ion al B a n k. Such approval is rarely g iven un l e ss the t ran s fer relates to a fore ign inves tment in Rwanda that is covered by the Inve s tment Law or to the personal effec ts of a fo re ign n a t ion al re tu rn ing to his own coun t ry. Re t ran s fer guaran tees are g iven by the N a t i o n al Bank in respect of short-term capital in f lows r em a i n i ng in Rw anda for at least two mon ths. Outward t ran s fer of proceeds from sales of real estate is suspended. Gold Re s iden ts may pu rchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins in Rw anda for n um i sm a t ic purposes o n l y. W i th th is excep- t ion, res iden ts o ther than the monetary au tho r i t ies and au thor ized indu s t r i al users are not allowed to hold or acqu i re gold in any form other than j ew e l ry. Imports and exports of gold requ i re l icenses. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement September 6. The peg for Rwanda franc was changed from the U .S. dollar to the SDR at a rate of RF 102.71 = SDR 1. Under the previous sys tem, the Rwanda franc had been pegged to the U .S. dollar since January 7, 1974, at the rate of RF 92.84 - US$1. Taking into account the U .S. dollar-SDR re la t ionsh ip on September 6, 1983, this measure entailed a 5.2 percent depreciation (in terms of m idpo in ts) of the Rwanda franc against the U .S. dollar. Imports and Import Payments March 1. A prior import deposit scheme for imports of luxu ry goods was introduced, equ iva lent to 100 per- cent or 50 percent of the c. & f. va lue of impor ts, depending on the product. The deposits were to earn no interest and were to be held by the Na t ional Bank of Rwanda for the period between the va l ida t ion of import licenses and the customs clearance of imports. Items exempted from the requirement included imports of gove rnment en t i t ies and imports of food and beverage by the hotels. Payments for Invisibles October 12. The Na t ional Bank of Rwanda issued a directive suspend ing u n t il fu r ther notice authorizations for the purchase of t icke ts and foreign exchange re la t ing to travel for reasons of le isure, vaca t ion, f am i l y, reli- g ion, conferences, and sports. At the same t ime, travel for bus iness or o f f ic ial reasons was to be restricted to the bare m i n im um, and restrictions were imposed on the leave treatment of fore ign residents wo rk ing in Rwanda. 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. LUCIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Lucia is the East Caribbean Dollar,1 which is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. Sales of foreign exchange by the commercial banks are subject to a tax of 2 percent. St. Lucia formally accepted the ob l iga t ions of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, as from May 30, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is t ry of Finance and Planning and applies to all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. Export l icens ing is required for a range of primary products. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CAR ICOM )2 must be made either in the currency of the CARICOM coun try concerned or in East Caribbean dollars. Settlements w i th residents of other countries may be made either in any foreign currency3 or in East Caribbean dollars. Where ju s t i f ied by the nature of the transaction, approval may be given to make payment for goods and services in a currency different from that of the country to wh ich payment is to be made. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents and business enterprises w i th the approval of the M in i s- try of Finance and Planning and may be ma in ta ined in the currency of receipt or in East Car ibbean dollars. These accounts may be credited only w i th foreign draf ts or checks, but hotels may also deposit currency notes into them. Such accounts may be debited for paymen ts to residents payable in East Caribbean dollars and, after approval by the M in is try of Finance and P lann ing, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel purposes and other specified paymen ts, inc lud ing payment for imports. Resident companies may be allowed to open 'The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of A n g u i l l a, A n t i g ua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. K i t t s -N e v i s, and St. V incent and Grenad ines. 2The CARICOM countries are A n t i g ua and B a rbud a, Ba rbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, G u y a n a, Jama ica, Mon tse r ra t, S t. K i t t s- Nev is, St. Luc ia, St. V incent and G renad ines, and Tr in idad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the East Caribbean dollar. 410 External Accounts (in East Caribbean currency or the currency of receipt), provided that deposits to the accounts are restricted to funds received from overseas and that drawings in foreign currency on the accounts are for payments abroad. Local payments from these ac- counts require that the amount be converted to East Caribbean dollars. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Most goods may be imported w i thout import licenses. Certain other commodities require ind iv idual licenses, unless imported from CARICOM countries. St. Lucia applies the new rules of origin of merchandise adopted by the CARICOM in June 1981. Paymen ts in foreign currency for authorized imports are permitted upon application to a local bank and submission of certified customs entry. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the M in is t ry of Finance and P lann ing. Imports of live an ima ls, m i lk, meat, f ish, eggs, fer t i l izers, and most agricultural and industrial ma- chinery are exempt from import duties. Other exempt items inc lude most imports from CARICOM and East Caribbean Common Market (ECCM) countries, imports under indu s t r ial incen t ive leg is la t ion, and items ex- empted under the Hotel Aids Ordinance. Import duties begin at a m in imum of 5 percent and are scheduled to be brought in l ine w i th the CARICOM common external tariff sometime in the fu tu re; duties on bay rum and firearms are at a h igher rate of 70 percent. Imports of fertilizer are subject to a stamp du ty of Vs of 1 percent of the c . i . f. va lue. All other imports are subject to a stamp du ty of 7 percent of the c . i . f. va lue. Payments for Invisibles Res iden ts may purchase foreign exchange from autho- rized banks up to the equ iva lent of EC$ 1,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area; th is l im it may be exceeded on ly w i th permission from the M in is t ry of Finance and P lann ing. For travel w i th in the CARICOM area using CAR ICOM trave ler's checks (wh ich are denominated in Trinidad and Tobago currency), the basic allowance is EC$2,000 a year. A travel tax is levied on the sale of a ir l ine tickets at the rate of 2.5 percent of the price of the ticket for travel w i th in CARICOM and 5 percent for travel elsewhere. The East Caribbean dollar is freely transfer- able w i t h in the ECCB area. With the approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance and P lann ing, profits may be remitted in f u l l, subject to confirmation by the Commis- sioner of In land Revenue that local tax liabilities have been discharged. However, in cases where profits are deemed to be h i g h, the M in is try of Finance and Planning reserves the right to phase remittances over a reasonable period of t ime. Insurance p rem iums are subject to tax as ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution follows: l i fe insurance, 1 .5 percent for residents and 3 percent for nonresident companies; general in su r an c e, 3 percent and 5 percent for residents and nonresident companies, respec t ive ly. Exports and Export Proceeds For certain commodities, no licenses are requ ired for export to any des t ina t ion. Proceeds from exports m u s t, in pr inc ip le, be surrendered. A d u ty of EC$0.0025 a pound is levied on exports of bananas. A special fee of EC$0.02 a barrel is applied on re-exports of pe tro leum. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transactions in inv is- ibles mu s t, in p r inc ip le, be surrendered. Travelers to St. Luc ia may b r ing in free ly notes and coin denom i- nated in East Caribbean dollars or in any fo re ign currency. Foreign currency coin is not no rm a l ly ex- changed by the banks. ST. LUCIA Capital A ll ou twa rd cap i tal transfers requ ire exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of foreign currency secu r i t ies and of real estate s i tua ted abroad for private purposes is not no rm a l ly pe rm i t ted. Personal cap i tal t ran s fe r s, such as inher i tances to nonresidents, requ ire approva l, w h i ch is n o rm a l ly granted provided that local tax l i a b i l i t i es have been discharged. Purchase of property is subject to a tax levied at a h igher rate in the case of non res ident purchasers. Gold There are no res tr ic t ions on imports of gold. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement October I. S t. Luc ia became a member of the n ew ly es tab l ished Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB) w h i ch replaced the East Caribbean Currency Au tho r i ty of w h i ch St. Luc ia was also a membe r. 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is the East Caribbean Do l lar ,l wh ich is issued by the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB). The East Caribbean dollar is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at EC$2.70 = US$1. On December 31, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were EC$2.6949 and EC$2.7084, respectively, per US$1. The ECCB also quotes daily rates for the Canadian dollar and the pound sterling. The sale of foreign exchange by commercial banks is subject to a 2 percent tax. St. Vincent and the Grenadines formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from August 24, 1981. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and applies to all countries outside the ECCB area. The Ministry delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve some import payments and certain other payments. Prescription of Currency Settlements with residents of member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 must be made either through External Accounts (in East Caribbean dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Settlements w i th residents of other countries may be made in any foreign currency3 or through an External Account in East Caribbean dollars. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents with the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. They are maintained in East Caribbean dollars and may be credited with inward remittances in foreign currency and with transfers from other External Accounts. Except with the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, East Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coin, and payments by residents may not be credited to External Accounts. These accounts may, however, be freely debited for payments abroad and to residents, without the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Quarterly statements of the accounts must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance by the operating banks. 'The East Caribbean dollar is also the currency of A n g u i l l a, An t igua and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. K i t t s -Nev i s, and St. Lucia. 2The CARICOM countries are An t igua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. K i t t s- Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3Foreign currencies Caribbean dollar. inc lude all currencies other than the East 412 Foreign Currency Accounts Accounts denominated in foreign currencies may be opened by nonresidents w i th the authorization of the Ministry of Finance; such accounts may be credited only w i th funds in the form of remittances from overseas. Except with the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance, remittances in East Caribbean currency, foreign currency notes and coin, and payments by residents may not be credited to a foreign currency account. These accounts may be debited for payments abroad without prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance. Quarterly statements of the accounts must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance by the operating banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports from South Africa are prohibited. Imports are divided into three categories: most goods may be freely imported; imports of some goods wh ich compete with typical exports of other countries in the CARICOM and the East Caribbean Common Market4 are subject to licenses; and imports of goods which compete with locally made products are prohibited in some cases. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence and, when required, of the license. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 7.5 percent of the c . i . f. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for trave l, medical treatment, education, subscription and membership fees, and g if ts are subject to l im i ts. All other payments exceeding EC$50 require approval by the M in is try of Finance. Residents may purchase foreign exchange from authorized banks up to the equivalent of EC$2,500 a year for travel outside the ECCB area; for business travel, additional allocations of foreign exchange may be made available up to an amount not exceeding EC$6,000 a year. The above allocations can be increased w i th the authorization of the Ministry of Finance. Purchases of foreign currency to cover expenses for medical treatment abroad are autho- rized by the Ministry of Finance upon presentation of a written statement by a local medical practitioner of the need for the treatment. The amount approved is based on the actual cost of the treatment. The amount of local currency that can be taken out by travelers is limited to EC$50 a trip. Students attending educational institutions overseas are permitted to purchase foreign exchange to cover the cost of tu i t ion and l iv ing expenses. Documentary proof 4The East Caribbean Common Market is composed of An t igua and Ba rbuda, Dom in ica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. K i t t s -Nev i s, St. Lucia, and St. V incent and Grenad ines. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of acceptance and attendance at the in s t i tu t ion is re- quired. Transfers of funds w i th in the ECCB area require authorization of the M in is t ry of Finance when ind iv idu al transactions exceed EC$2,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for the export to any des t ina t ion of some agricultural goods included in the CARICOM mar- keting protocol and in the CARICOM Oils and Fats Agreement. The licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Trade, wh ich in some cases has delegated the power to the St. Vincent Agricultural Marketing Board. Export proceeds must be surrendered. A 3 percent export d u ty is levied on bananas, arrowroot, s tarch, and g inge r. ST. VINCENT AND THE GRENADINES M in i s t ry of Finance to transfer funds abroad based on the va lue of assets held in St. V incen t. Transfer of sums exceed ing EC$20,000 a year is not no rma l ly perm i t ted. The transfer of proceeds from sales of assets held by em igran ts already resident in a foreign coun try is also l im i ted to EC$20,000 a year. Direct inves tment in St. V incent by nonresidents is not subject to exchange control. The rem i t tance of earnings on, and l iqu ida t ion proceeds f rom, such inves tment is permitted, subject to the discharge of any liabilities related to the inve s tmen t. The approval of the M in i s t ry of Finance is required for nonres iden ts to borrow in St. V incen t. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to f in an ce the ir domestic operations requ ires the approval of the M in i s t ry of F inance. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign currency proceeds from transac t ions in inv is- ibles must be surrendered. Travelers may br ing in freely notes and coin denominated in East Caribbean do l lars or in any foreign currency. Gold Residents are perm i t ted to acqu ire and hold gold coin for n um i sm a t ic purposes on ly. Under license by the M in i s t ry of F inance, impor ts of gold are perm i t ted for indus tr ial purposes on ly. Capital All outward capital transfers require exchange control approval. The purchase by residents of fore ign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for pr iva te purposes is not normally permitted. On presentation of documentary proof that permanent residence is be ing taken in a foreign coun t ry, emigrants may app ly to the Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement October 1. The East Car ibbean Currency Au tho r i ty was succeeded by the Eastern Caribbean Central B a n k, and St. V incent and the Grenadines (as well as An t igua and Ba rbuda, Dom in i c a, Grenada, Mon tserra t, and St. Luc ia) con t inued to be a member of the in s t i tu t ion. 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sao Tome and Principe is the Sao Tome and Principe Dobra, which is pegged to the SDR at Db 45.25 = SDR 1. The middle rate quoted by the National Bank of Sao Tome and Principe (the central bank) for the dobra against the U .S. dollar, the interven- tion currency, is determined on the basis of the da i ly calculation of the U .S. dollar-SDR rate. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies are also deter- mined on the basis of the Fund's daily calculations of the exchange rates of these currencies w i th respect to the SDR. On December 31, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were Db 42.69 and Db 43.76, respectively, per US$1. Charges on purchases and sales of foreign exchange are influenced by the relatively high processing cost of transactions with the rest of the world, reflecting the limited communication facilities. Foreign exchange transactions are divided into three categories for the purposes of these charges —namely, import payments, transactions in foreign checks, and collection of export proceeds. On import-related exchange transactions, the National Bank charges a commission of 1 percent of value and a postage levy of Db 20 for each transaction; in addition, there is a stamp du ty of 1 percent on import bills and of 3 percent on import letters of credit. (Import financing other than by letters of credit is not subject to the 3 percent stamp du ty .) To foreign checks for collection, the National Bank applies a commission in favor of the collecting foreign correspondents, amount- ing to the equivalent of US$6 for funds ranging between US$100 and US$1,000 and the equ iva lent of US$10 for amounts in excess of US$1,000; in addition, the Na- tional Bank charges a postage levy of Db 15 for each transaction, together w i th a stamp du ty of Db 3 for amounts not exceeding the equivalent of Db 1,000 and Db 2 for each Db 500 or part thereof above the equivalent of Db 1,000. For collection of export pro- ceeds, the National Bank charges, in favor of foreign correspondents, a commission margin that varies accord- ing to the value of the transaction; there is also a separate commission of 1 percent, and a m in imum postage levy of Db 50 for each transaction. Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions are under the con- trol of the National Bank. The exchange controls are applied f lex ib ly, and exceptions to the stated l im i ts are permitted on an ad hoc basis. All foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered to the National Bank, and all exchange payments must be made through that Bank. Import and export licenses are granted by the Directorate of External Commerce. 414 Prescription of Currency The National Bank may prescribe the currency in wh ich foreign exchange transactions shall be made. There are bilateral payments agreements with Cape Verde and the German Democratic Republic. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to licensing. Licenses are extended in accordance w i th Advance Import Registra- tion Bu l le t ins, which are valid for six months, but may be extended, if necessary. The license specifies the quan t i ty and the c . i . f. and f .o .b. values of the product to be imported and also the currency of settlement. Licenses granted have to be presented to the National Bank w i th in 15 days in order to receive foreign exchange cover. Imports of some products, such as beans, corn and corn f lour, fue l s, edible oils, meat, m i lk, rice, salt, soap, sugar, and wheat are a state monopoly and are imported exc lus ive ly by the External Commerce Com- pany. Licenses are granted under the annual import plan, taking into account the availability of foreign exchange and the coun t ry 's supply and economic development requirements. Prepayment of imports is permitted only through the opening of letters of credit. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are approved according to l im i ta t ions established by the National Bank and in accordance w i th limits specified under Decree-Law No. 5/81 of February 15, 1981. The l im i ts, wh ich allow for additional amounts in jus t if iab le cases, include those for (1) transfers for medical treatment abroad when local facilities are insufficient; (2) transfers of monthly remit- tances to students; (3) transfers of savings from earnings when under technical cooperation agreements with the Government; and (4) transfers for payment of fares, freight, costs of communication w i th foreign countries, etc. Purchases of foreign exchange by residents for tourism are strictly l im i ted, although air fares may be paid in domestic currency. Transfers of profits by foreign companies established in Sao Tome and Principe prior to independence have been temporarily suspended. There are no limitations on remittances for subscriptions to periodicals, books, e tc ., or on the payments of interest on external debt, provided the existence of the debt can be established. Foreign exchange allowances for medical purposes are permitted up to Db 20,000 in the first month and Db 10,000 in each of the ensuing two months, if adequate jus t i f ica t ion is provided. Further transfers may be approved beyond the additional two months, if ju s t i f iab le. Transfers of pension payments or social security payments are also permitted for nonresident ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution nationals who had been receiving such allowances by 1980. Payments for technical assistance and other services in the national interest are allowed. At the beginning of the school year a s tudent may receive a special transfer of up to Db 5,000 a year for expenses related to his courses; in add i t ion, remittances of maintenance allowance of up to Db 2,000 may be made in eligible cases. All payments related to inv is ib les are subject to a stamp tax of 2 percent. If the payment is made through a telegraphic transfer, the tax is 4 percent. Foreign travelers may take out in foreign exchange an amount not greater than the total sum declared upon en t ry. For th is purpose, it is expected that the da i ly expenses of a tour ist w i ll not be less than Db 3,000. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license, as set out in Advance Export Registration Bu l le t in s, wh ich specifies the quan t i ty and c . i . f. or f .o .b. va lue of the export. All export proceeds must be received through the National Bank. The Directorate of External Commercial Enter- prises, a state in s t i tu t ion, is responsible for exports, including those produced in the na t iona l ized sector of the economy. SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE Proceeds from Invisibles Travelers may bring exchange. in any amount of foreign Capital Inward foreign inves tmen ts are governed by the Inves tment Code (Decree-Law No. 30/80, of Augu st 5, 1980). Transfers are permitted for repayment of f inanc- ing under agreements w i th the Government and for the amortization of private sector inves tmen ts in ac t iv i t ies considered to be of na t ional interest. Personnel under techn ical assistance programs are allowed to transfer the ir savings in accordance w i th the terms of the ir contracts. Gold Exports and imports of gold require special authoriza- tion by the Na t ional Bank. Changes During 1983 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Saudi Arab ia is the Saudi A rab ian R iy a l, wh ich is pegged to the SDR at SR ls 4.28255 = SDR 1. In p r inc ip le, margins not exceeding 7 .25 percent are allowed around the fixed re la t ionsh ip; these ma rg ins were suspended on J u ly 22, 1981. The m idd le rate of the Saudi Arabian riyal for the U .S. do l lar, the in terven t ion cu r rency, quoted by the Saudi A rab ian Mone tary Agency is determined on the basis of the Fund 's da i ly ca lcu la t ion of the U .S. dollar-SDR rate. On De- cember 31, 1983 the Monetary Agency 's m idd le rate for the U . S. dollar was SR ls 3.495; it sold U .S. do l lars to banks at SRls 3.50 per US$1 and bought from banks and the principal producer of petroleum at SRls 3.49 per US$1; these rates served as the basis for exchange quo ta t ions in the marke t, the banks be ing permitted to charge up to 0.25 percent above and below the Monetary Agency 's buy ing and se l l ing rates. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Saudi Arab ia fo rma l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- men t, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel and South A f r ica is p roh ib i t ed .] No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not requ ired, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. The importa- tion of a few commodities is p roh ib i ted for reasons of re l ig ion, hea l th, or secur i ty; importation of certain other items in specified forms is also p roh ib i ted. Some imports are subject to customs du t ies at rates rang ing between 3 percent and 20 percent; imports from member states of the Gu lf Cooperation Counc il (GCC) are exempted provided that at least 40 percent of the va lue added in each case is effected in GCC coun t r ies and that the capital of the produc ing f i rm is at least 51 percent owned by GCC c i t izens. Certain imports from Lebanon are subject to proof of origin requirements. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. The re-export of certain imported items bene f i t ing from government subs idy is proh ib i ted. ' In add i t ion, a ll impor ts from these coun t r ies and a ll exports to these coun t r ies are p roh ib i ted; paymen ts may not be made to th em or be received from them for all types of transac t ions whe ther of a cu r rent or cap i tal n a tu r e. 416 Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Paymen ts for and proceeds from inv is ib les are not restricted. Travelers may freely import and export Saudi A rab ian bank notes and co in. Capital No exchange control requ iremen ts are imposed on cap i tal receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresidents. The Monetary Agency has issued gu ide l ines to its foreign correspondent banks requiring them to seek approval prior to the flotation of r iya l-denom ina ted loans. Local banks are proh ib i ted from i n v i t i ng foreign banks to participate in r iya l-denom ina ted syndicated transactions ins ide or outside Saudi Arabia w i thout prior approval of the Saudi Arab ian Monetary Agency. Prior approval by the Monetary Agency is also required for participation by local banks in either riyal-syndicated transactions arranged abroad or foreign currency syn- dicated transac t ions arranged for nonresidents. The Foreign Cap i tal Inves tment Law provides for specified benef i ts to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi A rab ia. Approved fore ign capital enjoys the same p r iv i leges as domestic capital under the 1962 Law for the Protection and Promotion of Na t ional Indus t ry. Foreign cap i tal invested in indus t r ial or agricultural projects w i th at least 25 percent Saudi A rab ian partici- pa t ion is exempt from income and corporate tax for ten years after production has begun. Borrowing from foreign banks is subject to a w i thho ld ing tax on the repa tr ia t ion of interest earn ings. Gold The monetary au thor i t ies and all other residents, i n c l u d i ng private persons, may freely and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, w i thout a license and w i thout payment of any cus toms du ty or tax, import and export gold in any fo rm, w i th the exception of 14-karat go ld, the import of w h i ch is proh ib i ted. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement The m idd le rate for the Saudi A rab ian riyal for the U . S. dollar was adjusted on several occasions during 1983, invo lv ing a change from SRls 3.435 = US$1 to SRls 3.495 = US$1, representing a cumu la t ive depreci- ation of 1 .72 percent. Imports and Import Payments March 1. Customs du t ies were abolished on goods o r ig ina t ing from member countries of the Gu lf Coopera- tion Counc il (GCC), provided that at least 40 percent of the va lue added in each case was effected in GCC ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA countries and that the capital of the p roduc ing f i rm was at least 51 percent owned by GCC c i t izen s. April 9. A customs du ty of 20 percent (w i th a m i n im um of SRI 0.06 a u n i t) was levied for a period of one year on imports of eggs. October 8. The customs d u ty on imports of s u l p h u r ic acid was raised to 20 percent (w i th a m i n im um of SRI 0.20 a k i log ram ). October 31. Cus toms du t ies were raised from 3 percent to 20 percent on imports of dry ba t ter ies. Capital January 15. Local banks were proh ib i ted from inv i t- ing fore ign banks to participate in r iya l-denom ina ted synd ica ted transac t ions ins ide or outside Saudi Arabia w i thout the prior approval of the Saudi Arab ian Mone- tary Agency. In add i t ion, par t ic ipa t ion by local banks in (Saudi A rab ian) r iya l - synd ica ted transac t ions arranged abroad or in foreign currency syndicated transactions arranged for non res iden ts was made subject to prior approval of the Saudi A rab ian Monetary Agency. 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position on December 3 J, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Senegal is the CFA F r an c ,] wh ich is pegged to the French f ranc, the in te rven t ion cu r rency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buy ing and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA f ranc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0 .10 per m i ll for transfers from countries ou ts ide the West A f r ican Mone- tary Un ion and one of 2.50 per m i ll for transfers to such coun tr ies .2 An exchange commission of 0.125-1.0 per m i l l, depending on the amoun t, is charged by the banks on purchases or sales of foreign exchange other th an those directly related to external transactions. In addi- t ion, they levy a commission on transfers to all coun t r ies outside the West A f r ican Monetary U n i o n, 72 percent of wh ich must be surrendered to the Treasury th rough the Central B ank. There are no taxes or subs id ies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. W i th the exception of measures r e l a t ing to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Senegal's exchange controls do not app ly to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is l i n k ed w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (B en in, Cameroon, the Central Afr ican R epub l i c, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, M a l i, N ig e r, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made f ree ly. All other coun t r ies are considered foreign coun tr ies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Money and Credit in the M in i s t ry of Economy and Finance. Part of the approval au tho r i ty in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the BCEAO and to authorized banks. The BCEAO is au thor ized to collect, e i ther d irec t ly or through the b ank s, other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, the Postal Adm in i s t r a t ion, and notaries pub l i c, any in fo rma t ion necessary to comp i le balance of payments s ta t is t ics. All exchange transac t ions relating to foreign countries mu st be effected th rough authorized banks, the Postal A dm i n i s t r a t i o n, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce, in c lud ing those for gold. Prescription of Currency Since Senegal is an Operations Account coun t ry, settlements w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, 'The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Cen t ra le des E ta ts de 1 'A f r i q ue de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cu r rency in B e n i n, Ivory Coast, N ige r, Senegal, Togo, and Upper V o l t a. 2Transfers between member countries of the Un ion are subject to a m i n im um f lat commission of CFAF 100 lev ied on se t t lemen ts between agencies of the BCEAO. 418 and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA f ranc s, French f rancs, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun t ry. Current transactions w i th The Gamb ia, Ghana, Gu inea, Gu inea -B issau, Liberia, M a u r i t a n i a, N i g e r i a, and Sierra Leone are no rma l ly settled th rough the West A f r ican Clearing House. Set- t lemen ts w i th a ll o ther coun t r ies a re u s u a l ly effected th rough correspondent banks in France, in any of the currenc ies of those coun t r ies, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements w i th South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions pe r ta in ing to nonres ident accounts are based on those applied in France. The cred i t ing to non res ident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other in s t i tu te of issue that m a i n t a i ns an Operations Account is not perm i t ted, except for BCEAO bank notes mailed to the BCEAO agency in Dakar by an au thor ized b ank 's foreign correspondent; such bank notes may be credited to a Foreign Account in Francs opened by the latter w i th an au tho r ized bank in Senegal. Foreign Accoun ts in Francs may be deb i ted, w i thout prior au tho r iza t ion, w i th the v a lue of BCEAO bank notes ma i led by authorized in te rmed ia r ies d i rec t ly to t h e ir foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports o r ig in a t ing in or proceeding from South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted, and the import of certain goods is prohibited from all countries except member states of the West A f r ican Economic Commun i ty. The import from any source of a numb er of other commodities is subject to i n d i v i d u al l i c en s ing. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area are genera l ly free of license and q u a n t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ion; some goods, a l though free from import l icense, requ ire prior au thor iza t ion by the Minis- try of Economy and Finance. Imports of v i r tu a l ly all goods from EC coun t r ies ( the six o r ig inal member states) and imports of some goods from all countries of the former O rgan iza t ion for European Economic Coopera- t ion (OEEC), the U n i t ed States, and Canada are free of q u a n t i t a t i ve res t r ic t ion; such liberalized imports require on ly an impo rt ce r t i f ica te made out by the importer h im s e l f. Impor ts of cer ta in goods from coun tr ies outside the EC, the French Franc Area, or the West African Economic Commun i ty are subject to prior authorization. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be dom ic i led w i th an authorized bank when their v a l ue exceeds CFAF 100,000 (de l ivered at the Senegal- ese border or c . i . f . ). The import licenses or import ce r t i f ica tes e n t i t le importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not ea r l ier than e ight days before sh ipment if a documen ta ry credit is opened or the due date for se t t lement if the commod i t ies have already been im- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ported (if no documen ta ry cred it has been opened, on presentation of the b i ll of l a d i n g ). Fu r the rmo re, pay- men ts for imports may not be made pr ior to cu s toms clearance. Payments for Invisibles A ll paymen ts to Sou th A f r ica are p roh ib i t ed. Pay- men ts for inv i s ib l es to France (as de f ined above ), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun t r ies are permitted f ree ly; those to o ther coun t r ies are sub ject to approva l. Paymen ts for i n v i s i b l es related to trade are permitted f ree ly when the bas ic trade t ran sac t ion has been approved or does not requ i re au tho r i z a t ion. A u t h o- rized banks are empowered to effect any p aym ent abroad up to CFAF 20,000 on beha lf of res iden ts w i t h o ut requ i r ing documen t s. Transfers of income a c c r u i ng to nonres iden ts in the form of p ro f i t s, d i v i d e n d s, and royalties are also p e rm i t t ed. For tou r ist t r av e l, res iden ts t r a v e l i ng to coun t r i es o ther than France (as de f ined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun t r ies may ob t a in an exchange allocation equ iva lent to CFAF 200,000 a year for each person (CFAF 100,000 for c h i l d r en u n d er t en ); any foreign exchange r em a i n i ng a f ter re turn to Senegal m u st be surrendered. App l i c a t ions for add i t ion al am o u n ts of foreign exchange may also be approved. For bu s in e ss t rave l, there is a special a l loca t ion of the e q u i v a l e nt of CFAF 20,000 a d ay, sub ject to a m a x im um of CFAF 300,000 a person a t r i p, but not more th an the equ iva lent of CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO b ank notes or its equ iv a l ent in currency notes issued by the Bank of France or a bank of issue l i n k ed w i th the F rench Treasury by an Operations Account may be t a k e n. The transfer of the f u ll net sa lary of a fo re igner w o r k i ng in Senegal is permitted upon p resen ta t ion of the appropr ia te pay vouche r, provided that the t ran s fer takes place w i t h in three mon ths f o l l ow i ng the pay period; howeve r, for M au r i t an i an na t iona ls wo rk ing in Senegal the t ran s- ferab le portion is l im i t ed to 50 percent or 80 pe rcen t, depend ing on f am i ly s ta tus and re s idence, except for leave sa lar ies, w h i ch a re t ran s fe rab le in f u l l. Res ident and non re s ident t rave le rs to fo re ign coun t r i es may take o u t, in add i t ion to any fo re ign exchange a l loca t ion, up to CFAF 20,000 in BCEAO b ank no te s, French b ank notes, and bank notes of o ther Ope ra t ions Account coun tr ies. R e s id ent t rave le rs to other coun t r ies of the French Franc Area may take out any am o u nt in BCEAO bank notes, b u t, if proceeding to a coun t ry that is not a member of the West A f r i c an Mone ta ry U n i o n, they mu st declare to the cus toms the am o u nt t ak en out if it exceeds CFAF 200,000. Non re s ident t rave le rs may f ree ly take out any means of p a ym e n t, such as t r av e l e r 's ch e ck s, issued abroad in the ir name. Howeve r, the export of fo re ign bank notes in amoun ts in excess of the e q u i v a l e nt of CFAF 50,000 is authorized on ly up to the amount declared by them on en try (m i n us sales of fo re ign exchange in Senegal and p lus any repurchases up to CFAF 50,000). SENEGAL Exports and Export Proceeds A ll expor ts to Sou th A f r i ca are p roh ib i ted. W i th a few excep t ions ( e . g ., go ld, d i am o n d s, tuna f i s h ), exports to coun t r ies in the French Franc Area are free of l icense. Most exports to o ther coun t r i es requ i re l icenses, m a in ly in order to assure adequa te supp l i es for domestic needs and to p revent ce r ta in re -expo r ts. Cer ta in non t rad i t ional expor ts are e l i g i b le for an export sub s idy e q u i v a l e nt to 15 pe rcent of f . o . b. v a l u e, des igned to promote exports to nonm emb er c o u n t r i es of the Economic C omm u n i ty of West A f r i c a. The scheme covers ag r icu l tu ral equ ipmen t, canned f i s h, f e r t i l i z e r s, shoes, t e x t i l e s, and products in excess supp ly on the dome s t ic market or for wh ich o u t p ut cou ld e a s i ly be inc reased. Proceeds from exports to fo re ign c o u n t r i e s, i n c l u d i ng coun t r ies of the French Franc A rea, m u st n o rm a l ly be collected w i t h in 120 days of the a r r ival of the goods at th e ir de s t ina t ion and repa t r ia ted not la ter th an one mon th af ter the due date. A ll export t r an s a c t ions exceed ing CFAF 500,000 mu st be dom i c i l ed w i th an au tho r ized b ank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from t r an s a c t ions in i n v i s i b l es w i th France (as de f ined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count c o u n t r i es may be r e t a in ed. A ll amoun ts due from re s iden ts of o ther coun t r ies in respect of services, and all income earned in those coun t r i es from fo re ign assets, m u st be co l lec ted and su r rende red, if received in foreign cu r r en cy, w i t h in one mon th of the due date or the date of rece ip t. R e s id ent and non res ident trave lers may bring in any am o u nt of b a nk notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the B a nk of France, or any bank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Opera t ions Account w i th the French T rea su ry, as w e ll as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold co in) of countries outside the French Franc Area; res iden ts b r ing ing in foreign bank notes mu st declare them to the customs upon entry and se ll them to an au tho r ized bank w i t h in e ight days. Capital All se t t lemen ts be tween Senegal and South Afr ica are p r o h i b i t e d. C ap i t al movemen ts between Senegal and France (as de f ined above ), Monaco, and the Operations A c c o u nt c o u n t r i es are free of exchange control; cap i tal t r an s f e rs to a ll o ther coun t r i es r equ i re exchange control app rov a l, but c a p i t al rece ip ts from such countries a re p e rm i t t ed f r e e l y. Special con t ro ls ( a d d i t i o n al to any exchange control r e q u i r em e n ts that may be app l icab le) are ma in ta ined over bo r row ing abroad, over inwa rd direct inves tment and a ll ou twa rd i n v e s tm e n t, and over the i s su ing, a d v e r t i s i n g, or o f f e r i ng for sale of fo re ign secur i t ies in Senega l. Such ope ra t ions requ i re prior au tho r iza t ion by the M i n i s t er of Economy and F in an c e. Exempt from a u t h o r i z a t i o n, how ev e r, a re opera t ions in connection w i th ( 1) loans backed by a guaran tee from the Senegal- ese Gov e rnm ent and (2) shares that are iden t ical w i t h, or may be s u b s t i t u t ed fo r, secu r i t ies whose issue, o f f e r ing, or sale in Senegal has p r ev iou s ly been au tho r ized. W i th 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the from special loan was exempt is exempt if au tho r iza t ion. The Inves tment Code provides various fac i l i t ies and bene f i ts for approved foreign inves tmen ts in Senegal. There are special fac i l i t ies for export industries estab- lished in the Dakar export-processing zone. Gold Residents are free to ho ld, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold from or to any o ther coun t ry require prior authorization by the M in i s t er of Economy and Finance. Import and export licenses for gold are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Exempt from th is requ irement are (1) im- ports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles contain- ing a m inor q u a n t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. Brokers in precious metals require an authorization from the M in is ter of Economy and Finance to conduct their bu s ine s s. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to cus toms declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmone tary gold are subject to a tax of 25 percent. Commercial imports of gold jewe l ry require prior au tho r iza t ion, and imports of ornaments require the prior advice of the Senegal Corporation for the Promotion of Art Hand ic ra f ts (Societe Senegalaise pour la Promotion de 1'Artisanat d 'A r t) and the Directorate of Mines and Geology. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments February 18. A mod if ica t ion of the tariff structure was effec ted, in the form of exemption of a number of items from custom du t ies and a revision of the tariff rate on a numb er of other i tems. March 19. It was announced that the importation of video cassettes and machines would be subject to add i t ional regu la t ions. May 2. The general import tax on nonexempt items was raised from 15 percent to 20 percent. Exports and Export Proceeds February 18. In a mod i f ica t ion of the export subsidy scheme designed to increase exports to nonmember coun tr ies of the Economic Commun i ty of West Afr ica, the subs idy rate was increased from 10 percent to 15 per- cent of the f . o . b. va lue of exports, and the coverage was extended to products in excess supply on the domestic market or for wh i ch ou tput could be easily increased. SENEGAL the exception of controls over foreign secur i t ies, these measures do not apply to France, Monaco, member countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit w i th foreign pr iva te persons and foreign f i rms and in s t i tu t ion s, and over pub l ic i ty aimed at placing funds abroad or at subsc r ib ing to real estate and bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies. All investments abroad by residents of Senegal require prior authorization by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance;3 75 percent of such inves tmen ts mu st be financed w i th borrowing abroad. Foreign direct inves t- ments in Senegal4 must be declared to the M in is ter of Economy and Finance before such inves tmen ts are made. The Minister has a period of two mon ths from receipt of the declaration, du r ing wh i ch he may request postponement of the project. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ing of direct and other inves tmen ts, whe ther these are Senegalese inves tmen ts abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the M in i s ter and the BCEAO w i t h in 20 days fo l low ing each opera- tion. Direct inves tmen ts cons t i tu te inves tmen ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Lend ing abroad requires prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance. Borrowing by residents from nonres iden ts requ ires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from th is authorization: (1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct inve s tmen t, wh ich are subject to prior dec lara t ion, as ind ica ted above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans other than those mentioned above, subject to certain cond i t ions, when the total amount ou t s tand ing of these loans, in c lud ing the new borrow ing, does not exceed CFAF 40 m i l l ion. The repayment of loans not cons t i tu t ing a direct inves tment requires the special authorization of the M in is ter of Economy and F inance if the loan itself was subject to such approva l, but 3I n c l u d i ng i n v e s tm e n ts made th rough fo re ign compan ies th at a re d irec t ly or ind i r e c t ly con tro l led by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subs id ia r ies abroad of compan ies in Senega l. 4I n c l u d i ng those made by compan ies in Senegal that are d i r e c t ly or ind i rec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subs id iar ies in Senegal of fo re ign compan ies. 420 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SEYCHELLES (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Seychelles is the Seyche l les Rupee, which is pegged to the SDR at SR 7.2345 = SDR 1. The official buy ing and se l l ing rates for the pound s t e r l ing, the in terven t ion cu r rency, are de term ined on the bas is of the da i ly ca lcu la t ion of the pound sterling-SDR rate on the previous bus iness day. On December 3 1, 1983 the buy ing and se l l ing rates of the Cen tral B ank of the Seychelles for the pound s te r l ing were SR 9.9638 and SR 10.0636, respec t ive ly, per £ stg. 1. The Cen t ral Bank charges a commission of 0.125 percent for buy ing and 0.875 percent for se l l ing of pounds s te r l ing and U . S. dollars. The commerc ial banks are au tho r ized to deal in pounds sterling and other currencies at rates based on the da i ly ca lcu la t ions of SDR rates for the respective currencies. These rates are c i rcu la ted d a i ly to the commercial banks by the Central B a n k. There are no taxes or subsidies on pu rchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Seychelles fo rma l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of A r t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag r e em en t, as from January 3, 1978. Administration of Control and Prescription of Currency There is no exchange con tro l, and there are no prescription of currency requ i remen ts. Imports and Import Payments No restrictions are placed on paymen ts for impo r ts, except where goods imported from Sou th A f r ica are concerned. W i th th is exception, most goods may be imported free ly from any source under open general license. Paymen ts for such t ransac t ions may be effec ted without the completion of application forms. A l im i ted numb er of imports, i n c l u d i ng motor veh ic les, requ i re a specific license, and the import of a few i tems is proh ib i ted. Most imports are sub ject to d u t i e s, w i th a preferen t ial schedule of rates app ly ing to goods o r ig in a t- ing in Commonwea l th, ACP, and EC coun t r ie s. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on paymen ts for inv i s ib l e s, and no l im i ts are imposed on the p rov is ion of travel exchange. Travelers may take or send out of Seyche l les any amount of domestic or foreign cu r rency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports n o rm a l ly do not requ i re l icenses, but certain exports are subject to du t ies. Res iden ts may export goods w i t h o ut exchange control fo rma l i ty to any coun- t r y, except Sou th A f r i c a. Export proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from i n v i s i b l es may be disposed of f r e e ly. Overseas v i s i to rs may br ing in any amount of currency for travel exp end i tu r e. Capital No res tr ic t ions are imposed on inwa rd or ou twa rd cap i tal p aym en t s. Ou twa rd transfers of overseas-owned capital are allowed w i thout l im i t. Whether or not they have been granted temporary res iden t ial s ta tus, nonna- t ion a ls are pe rm i t ted to repatriate the ir su rp lus earn ings w i t h o ut l i m i t. New inve s tment ou ts ide Seyche l les by permanent residents and by companies and other organizations opera t ing in Seychelles is not subject to any l im i t a t i o n. Foreign inve s tment (w h e t h er po r t fo l io, direct inves t- m en t, increased inves tment in ex is t ing entities in the form of loans, or e q u i ty c ap i t a l) is free of res tr ic t ions. Gold Res iden ts may f ree ly pu rchase, ho ld, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad, but dealings in gold bu l l ion are restricted to au tho r ized dea lers. Two commemora t ive gold coins in d enom in a t ions of SR 1,500 and SR 1,000 have been issued and are legal tender. Ano ther gold coin in denom ina t ions of SR 20 issued in December 1983 in commemo ra t ion of the f i f th ann iv e r s a ry of the f o u n d i ng of the Cen t ral Bank is also legal tender. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement January 1. The Seyche l les Mone tary Au tho r i ty be- came the Cen tral B ank of the Seyche l les. Imports and Import Payments July 1. Cus toms du t i es were increased on a numb er of consumer goods but wa ived on certain types of yarns, fab r ics, and tools. In add i t ion, import l icens ing require- ments were in troduced for motor veh ic les. 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position on December 3 J, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sierra Leone is the Sierra Leonean Leone wh ich is pegged to the U . S. do l lar at Le 1 = US$0.40. On December 31, 1983 the Bank of Sierra Leone's buy ing and selling rates in the o f f ic ial ma rket were US$0.4000 and US$0.39688, respectively, per Le 1. The Bank of Sierra Leone deals at the o f f i c i al market rate on ly in pounds sterling and the U . S. do l lar; daily rates for the pound sterling are de term ined on the basis of the U .S. dollar-pound s ter l ing ra te, subject to a maximum commission of 1 percent on the selling side on ly. Rates for other currencies are de term ined on the basis of the U .S. dollar rates for the respec t ive currencies in the London market. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the M i n i s t ry of Finance, but the day-to-day adm in i s t r a t ion of ex- change control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone w i th the assistance of the commercial bank s. A Foreign Exchange Allocation Comm i t tee, assisted by a Technical Sub-Committee, supervises the allocation of foreign exchange within the framework of an annual foreign exchange budget. Import and export licenses are also issued by the M in is try of Trade and Indu s t ry w i t h in the framework of foreign exchange budge t. Au tho r ized banks may sell foreign exchange for licensed impor ts and for travel expenses w i th in specified l im i t s. Prescription of Currency Transactions w i th all coun tr ies are sub ject to exchange control. Certain settlements w i th the People's R epub l ic of China must be channeled through c lear ing accounts established under the terms of a b i la te ral paymen ts agreement. Paymen ts for imports from o ther coun t r ies may be made in leones to the credit of an Ex ternal Accoun t, in the currency of the expor t ing coun t ry, in sterling, or in U .S. dollars. Se t t lemen ts w i th the Central Bank of West Afr ican States (for B e n i n, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) and The Gambia, Ghana, Gu inea, Gu inea -B i s sau, L iber ia, Ma l i, Mau r i tan ia, and N iger ia are no rma l ly made th rough the West Afr ican Clearing House. Receipts from exports other than diamonds to countries other than the People's Republic of China may be obtained in leones from an External Accoun t, in the currency of the impo r t ing coun try, or in any specified c u r r e n c y .l Receipts from all exports must be obtained in the currency of the impo r t ing country or in any other specified cu r rency, and surren- dered through the bank ing system of Sierra Leone. 'Au s t r i an s c h i l l i n g s, Be lg ian f r an c s, C an ad i an d o l l a r s, D a n i sh kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f r an c s, I t a l i an l i r e, Japanese y e n, Ne ther lands gu i ld e r s, No rweg ian k rone r, Portuguese escudos, pounds s te r l ing, Span ish pesetas, Swed i sh k rono r, Sw iss f r an c s, and U . S. dollars. 422 Nonresident Accounts Accoun ts in leones held w i th authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside Sierra Leone are designated External Accounts. Residents of former S ter l ing Area coun t r ies2 may ma in ta in Sterling Area Accounts denominated in leones. In addition, there are Blocked Accoun t s, to wh ich are credited amounts due to nonres iden ts that may not be remitted abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Nam ib ia and South Africa are p roh ib i ted; in add i t ion there is a l ist of prohibited luxu ry import i t em s, i n c l u d i ng cars, radios, televisions, cam- eras, wa sh ing mach ine s, and certain food products. All o ther imports are sub ject to specific import licenses wh ich are issued w i th in the annual foreign exchange budget on the bas is of quarterly import programs. Priority in l icen s ing is g iven to essential items, such as r ice, suga r, essen t ial foods, raw materials, and spare parts. Import orders may be placed only after receipt of import licenses and foreign exchange approval. All imports must be made aga inst letters of credit w i th local commercial banks or after receipts of foreign exchange on terms and cond i t ions determined by the Foreign Exchange A l loca t ion Comm i t tee. For imports not fi- nanced th rough local commercial bank s, a deposit of 50 percent of the invoice va lue is payable on receipt at Customs. There has been an accumulation of arrears on import paymen ts. All imports not spec if ica l ly exempted by the Minister of F inance are subject to an invoice entry fee and to an import l icen s ing fee, both equal to 12 percent of the c . i . f. v a l u e; the rate for imports from countries belong- ing to the Economic Commun i ty of West African States is 5 percent. To cover the costs of issu ing licenses, a levy of 2.5 percent is imposed on the c . i . f. value of all imports, payab le at the t ime of importation. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents above $1,000 are licensed by the M in i s t ry of Trade and Indus t ry w i th in the foreign exchange a l loca t ion budge t. W i th the appro- p r ia te do cum en t a t ion, the foreign exchange for ind iv i- du al t ransac t ions of up to US$ 1,000 may be purchased directly from authorized banks. Remittances of earnings by foreign na t iona ls are l im i ted, in pr inc ip le, to US$6,500 or 40 percent of net taxab le annual wages and sa lar ies, wh ichever is lower, but the Bank of Sierra Leone may perm it the transfer of larger amounts. In su rance on imported goods mu st be taken out with in su rance companies incorporated in Sierra Leone. Buy- ing commission for agents abroad is not normally 2S ie r ra Leone 's r e g u l a t i o ns s t i ll p rov ide a d e f i n i t i on of the Sterling Area; the d e f i n i t i on inc ludes Sierra Leone and excludes South A f r ica. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution permitted to exceed 3 percent, and bank charges, f inanc ing comm iss ion, and o ther f in an c i al charges on imports also are not no rma l ly a l lowed. There are arrears on payments for current inv i s ib l e s, i n c l u d i ng in te rest on official debt. For travel abroad, residents are en t i t led to a bas ic exchange allowance of US$1,000 a person a ca lendar year. App l ica t ions for larger amoun ts are cons idered on an ind iv idual basis. In add i t ion to the bas ic exchange allowance, travelers may take ou t, regardless of destina- t ion, Le 20 in leone notes and the e q u i v a l e nt of Le 50 in foreign currency notes. Non re s ident t rave le rs may take out any foreign currency bank no tes, i n c l u d i ng s t e r l ing notes, declared by them when en te r ing Sierra Leone. Travel abroad is subject to a travel tax of 10 percent of the price of the t icke t, payab le at the t ime of pu rchase of the t icke t. Exports and Export Proceeds W i th the exception of some commod i t i e s, the expor ta- tion of wh ich is restricted to certain state corporations, export licenses are granted by the M i n i s t ry of Trade and Indus try for the export of all commod i t ies to all coun t r i es except Nam ib ia and South A f r ica. The proceeds of exports, in c lud ing d iamonds and o ther m i n e r a l s, m u st be received in the currency of the impo r t ing coun t ry or in any other specified currency agreed to by the Bank of Sierra Leone; the proceeds mu st be received by the exporter and sold to an au thor ized bank in Sierra Leone or the Bank of Sierra Leone w i t h in 30 days from the date of export, or 60 days for d iamonds and 10 days for coffee and cocoa, un less pe rm iss ion to do o the rw ise is obtained. The buy ing and exporting of d iamonds is carried out by locally licensed f i rms and by several foreign companies. Proceeds from specified t rad i t ional exports mu st be surrendered to the Bank of Sierra Leone; proceeds from all other exports may be surrendered e i ther to the Bank of Sierra Leone or any au thor ized bank in Sierra Leone. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from inv i s ib les in specified cu r renc ies (see footnote 1) mu st be offered for sale to an au tho r ized bank w i th in 30 days. Subject to dec lara t ion upon e n t r y, persons entering Sierra Leone may b r ing in any am o u nt of foreign bank notes. The impo r ta t ion of domestic b a nk notes is l im i ted to Le 20 for each trave ler. Capital Capital paymen ts to non res iden ts of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange con tro l. Re s iden ts of Sierra Leone require permission from the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situated abroad. Inves tmen ts by non res iden ts may be repatriated at any t ime, together w i th p ro f i t s, sub ject to foreign exchange av a i l ab i l i ty and provided that exchange control permission was ob ta ined i n i t i a l ly for the inve s tmen t. SIERRA LEONE The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Act of 1954 imposes con t rol on the issue and t ran s fer of secur i t ies. The p l a c i ng of an issue in Sierra Leone requires p e rm i s s ion if e i t h er the person acqu i r ing the securities or the person for w h om he is nom inee is res ident outside Sierra Leone. Pe rm i s s ion m u st also be ob ta ined before a s e c u r i ty reg is te red in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a non r e s id en t. Cap i tal in respect of secur i t ies registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred abroad w i thout p e rm i s s ion. Whe re pe rm i s s ion has been g iven for securi- t ies reg is tered in S ie r ra Leone to be sold to persons re s ident ab road, the company is u s u a l ly required to ob ta in bank c e r t i f i c a t i on of the f u n ds b rought in to Sierra Leone. The Deve lopment Ordinance of 1960 and the Deve lopment of Indu s t r i es Ac t, 1983, provide for income tax and cu s toms d u ty concessions to fore ign and dome s t ic compan ies u n d e r t a k i ng indu s t r i al or agricul- tu ral a c t i v i t i es that are needed for the deve lopment of the c o u n t r y. N o n c i t i z e ns are p roh ib i ted from own ing or c o n t r o l l i ng ce r ta in types of bu s ine s s. Res iden ts of Sierra Leone must sell the ir foreign ex ch ange h o l d i n gs to an au tho r ized dea le r. Exemp t ion is gran ted for au tho r ized dea le r s, d ip loma t s, and holders of s t e r l i ng assets h e ld p r ior to J u ne 24, 1972 for wh ich ex emp t ion has been c l a im ed and granted by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Exemp ted secur i t ies may be sold outside the fo rmer S t e r l i ng Area (see footnote 2) and any income the re f rom may be re ta ined in the fo rmer Sterling Area or re inves ted in o ther S te r l ing Area secur i t ies. Any cer t if i- cate of s e cu r i t i es pu rchased w i th the proceeds of the sale of s e cu r i t i es exemp ted u n d er th is pe rm iss ion is exempt from deposit requ i remen t s. Any assets held outside the fo rmer S t e r l i ng Area by any fo re ign na t ional temporarily re s ident in Sierra Leone also are exempt from surrender and deposit r equ i r em en t s, provided th at exemp t ion has been c l a im ed and g ran ted by an au tho r i z ed dealer or by the B a nk of Sierra Leone. H o l d i n gs of w o r k i ng ba lances in fo re ign exchange by comm e r c i al b a n ks are s u b j e ct to ce i l ing s; fore ign ex- change i n f l ows above the pe rm i t ted l im i ts mu st be su r rende red to the Bank of Sierra Leone. Gold Re s iden ts may f ree ly pu rcha se, ho ld, and sell gold co ins in S ierra Leone for n um i sm a t ic purposes. Also, res iden ts and non res iden ts may f ree ly pu rchase, ho ld, s e l l, or export ce r ta in S ierra Leonean commemora t ive gold co in s. W i th these excep t ions, residents other than the mone ta ry a u t h o r i t i e s, gold producers, and au thor ized i n d u s t r i al users are not a l lowed to pu rchase, ho ld, or sell gold in any fo rm o ther than j ew e l r y, at home or abroad; res iden ts m u st dec lare and make av a i l ab le to the Govern- ment gold he ld in the fo rm of bars or co in. Imports of gold in any form other than jewe lry cons t i tu t ing the personal e f fec ts of a t rave ler requ i re i n d i v i d u al import l icen se s, w h i ch are not n o rm a l ly g ran ted. The Bank of Sierra Leone is the on ly o f f i c i al exporter of gold. Trave lers do not requ i re a l icense to take out personal j ew e l ry if the v a l ue of the to tal gold and p l a t i n um content 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE does not exceed Le 200. Exports of unworked gold are not subject to export tax. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement July 1. The official and commercial rates for the leone were un i f ied; the peg of the leone to the SDR was discontinued, and a new exchange rate of Le 2.50 = US$1 was established. Imports and Import Payments January 21. It was announced that no importers would henceforth be permitted to import goods in to the country w i thout foreign exchange cover. February 18. Imports of certain luxu ry goods, inc lud- ing cars, consumer durables and some food products were banned for at least six months. Sales of imported cigarettes were prohibited, w i th the exception of those made in other Mano River Un ion member countries. March 28. A deposit requirement of 50 percent of invoice value was imposed on customs arrivals of imports financed outside the Sierra Leone bank ing system. September 7. A new foreign exchange allocation system (to be supervised by a Foreign Exchange Alloca- tion Committee) was introduced under wh ich an annual foreign exchange budget would be drawn up for the fiscal year, based on projected flows of foreign ex- change. The budget wou ld be implemented through a quarterly import program based on a priority l is t ing of imports and invisibles, emphasizing medical equ ipmen t, drugs, educational material, spare parts, and other essential goods. The budget would provide for sectoral allocations on the basis of wh ich import licenses would be issued and exchange control approvals granted. Imports could be ordered only after receipt of the import license and exchange control approval. All imports were to be contracted only against letters of credit opened w i th local commercial banks, or otherwise after receipt of foreign exchange on terms and conditions to be deter- mined by the Foreign Exchange Allocation Committee. Goods imported under lines of credit and already landed at the customs were permitted to clear customs without payment of the deposit of 50 percent of invoice va lue stipulated in the regulation introduced in March 1983. Should a request be made for foreign exchange to settle invoices for goods originally imported under lines of credit, the importer would be required to deposit 100 percent of the invoice va lue, and remittance of the foreign exchange value would take place through the commercial pipeline of foreign exchange applications. In add i t ion, it was decided that no further imports were to be permitted to enter Sierra Leone under the line of credit system. Payments for Invisibles September 7. A regulation was introduced, under wh ich any remittances of funds by commercial banks in excess of US$1,000 was subject to approval by the Foreign Exchange Allocation Committee. Foreign ex- change purchases for foreign travel in excess of US$1,000 per year in each case, inc lud ing those for medical and educational purposes, were also made subject to such approval. In addition, it was announced that remittances of profits and dividends would be authorized in principle but m ight be delayed depending on the ava i lab i l i ty of foreign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds September 7. Export regulations were modified to require all exports, w i th the exception of diamonds, to be carried out only against export lines of credit opened w i th banks in Sierra Leone, or on a collection basis through the Bank of Sierra Leone. Capital September 7. Ceilings were imposed on holdings of work ing balances in foreign exchange by commercial banks; in f lows of foreign exchange above the permitted l im i ts were required to be surrenderd to the Bank of Sierra Leone. November 15. The Development of Industries Act was in troduced, gran t ing new incentives for industrial development by foreign investors as well as by local residents and expatriates. The incentives included prefer- ential treatment on import licenses, partial or total exemption from customs duties on capital equipment, raw material and other goods, relief from surtax and income tax not to exceed five years, export guarantees, export tariff exemp t ions, tax deductions on training fac i l i t ies, and e l ig ib i l i ty for project-financing loans in some cases. An industrial development department was to be set up w i th in the M in is try of Trade and Industry. In add i t ion, the Act entrusted this Ministry and the Bank of Sierra Leone w i th the task of setting up a stock exchange in Freetown. 424 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Singapore is the S ingapore Do l la r. The va lue of the Singapore do l lar is de te rm ined on the basis of its f ixed re la t ion sh ip to a t rade -we igh ted basket of currencies representing Singapore's ma jor t r a d i ng partners. The exchange rate of the Singapore do l lar in terms of the U . S. do l la r, the in te rven t ion cu r r en cy, is determined in the foreign exchange m a rk e t. The b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the U . S. do l lar on December 3 1, 1983 were S$2.1265 and S$2 .1275, re spec t ive ly, per US$1. Rates for other currenc ies are e s tab l i shed on the basis of the da i ly rate for the U . S. do l lar and t h e ir cross rates in in te rna t ional marke ts. Banks are free to deal spot and forward in all currenc ies. S ingapore and B r u n ei currency notes and co ins are free ly i n t e r c h a n g e a b l e, at par and w i thout charge, in Singapore and B r u n e i. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fo re ign exchange. Singapore fo rm a l ly accepted the ob l ig a t ions of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- men t, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control There are no exchange control f o rm a l i t i es but the Monetary Au tho r i ty of Singapore re ta ins r e spon s ib i l i ty for exchange control ma t ters. The Trade Deve lopment Board under the M in i s t ry of Trade and I n d u s t ry a dm i n i s- ters and registers imports and expor ts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescr ip t ion of cu r rency r e q u i r em e n t s. Nonresident Accounts There is no d i s t in c t ion between accoun ts of re s iden ts and nonresidents of S ingapore. Deb i ts and c red i ts to all accounts may be made f ree ly. Imports and Import Payments V i r tu a l ly all imports are pe rm i t ted f ree ly. A few imports are controlled for h e a l t h, s a f e ty, or secu r i ty reasons. A ll imports o r ig in a t ing in Sou th A f r i ca or any territory adm in is te red by it are p r o h i b i t e d. Impo rt licenses are requ ired for the fo l low ing i t em s, i r respec t ive of or ig in: (1) r ice, re f ined suga r, a i r - c o n d i t i o n i ng ma- ch ines not exceeding 9,000 KCAL /H ( e x c l u d i ng a i r- cond i t ion ing mach ines for motor v eh i c l e s ); and (2) a ll goods o r ig ina t ing in or cons igned f rom A l b a n i a, the German Democratic R e p u b l i c, the Lao Peop le 's Demo- cratic R epub l i c, Mongo l ia, and V i et N am. L icense app l ica t ions for goods under the second ca tegory are subject to a surcharge of 0.5 percent of the c . i . f. v a l ue of imports, payab le to the Gov e rnm en t. Payments for Invisibles A ll paymen ts for inv i s ib l es may be made f ree ly. There are no re s t r ic t ions on the amount of foreign exchange made a v a i l a b le for t ravel abroad. Rem i t tances to nonres- iden ts of d i v i d e n d s, in te re s t, and prof i ts may be made f r e e l y. Re s ident and non res ident travelers may take out any am o u nt in fore ign or Singapore bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of ce r ta in tex t i les and ga rmen ts of Singapore o r ig in to coun t r ies of the European Economic Commu- n i t y, A u s t r i a, Canada, F i n l a n d, N o rw a y, Sweden, and the U n i t ed States are sub ject to q u a n t i t a t i ve restriction in the impo r t ing coun t r ie s. Export l icenses are required for re f ined sug a r, re in fo rcement bars (6 m i l l ime te rs to 32 m i l l im e t e r s ), g ran i te, sand, t imb e r, and rubber. Expo rt proceeds need not be surrendered and may be disposed of f r e e ly. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from i n v i s i b l es need not be surren- dered and may be disposed of f r e e ly. Resident and non r e s id ent t rave le rs may b r ing in any amount in foreign bank notes and c o i n, i n c l u d i ng Singapore gold coin. Capital There are no res t r ic t ions on cap i tal t rans fe rs. Govern- ment app roval is requ ired for inve s tment in residential and o ther properties ( i n c l u d i ng vacant land) other than those zoned or approved for indu s t r i al or commercial use. A fo re igner m a y, however, f ree ly purchase a r e s id en t i al u n it w i t h in a b u i l d i ng of s ix or more stories and in an approved condom in ium deve lopment w i thout such app rova l. W i th regard to other res iden t ial proper- t i e s, fo re igne rs who make an economic con t r ibu t ion to S ingapore w i ll be g iven favo rab le consideration for pu rchase of these properties for the ir own occupation and, in the case of foreign compan ies, for the accommo- da t ion of t h e ir senior personne l. Singapore b anks that have been licensed to operate in A s ian Currency U n i ts (ACU s) and t h us to operate in the A s i an do l l ar m a r k e t, may f ree ly accept deposits in cu r renc ies o ther th an Singapore do l lars. A ll income earned from loan synd ica t ion in Singapore d u r i ng the f i v e - y e ar period b e g i n n i ng in Apr il 1983 by ACUs based in Singapore are exempt from the 10 percent in come t a x, prov ided that (a) the en t i ty se rv ing as lead manager is an ACU in Singapore (in the case of two or more lead managers, at least one ha lf of the n um b er m u st be f i n a n c i al in s t i tu t ions in Singapore), (b) the M i n i s t ry of Finance is sa t is f ied that the b u lk of the synd i c a t ion process was done in S ingapore, (c) there are at least three lenders in the loan t ransac t ion, and (d) the loan invo lved is an offshore loan. A ll income 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE dur ing the five years from May 1983 by nonresidents will be exempted from tax, provided that their funds are managed by approved ACUs and that the income is derived from offshore investment. Management fees of the fund managers will be taxed at the concessionary rate of 10 percent. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore, to wh ich residents and nonresidents who are members of the Gold Exchange of Singapore have free access. Both resident and nonresident ind iv idua ls and companies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold freely; imports and exports require neither exchange control approval nor import or export licenses, and gold can be dealt w i th freely by any person in Singapore. There are two distinct gold markets, the physical market and the futures market. The delivery points for the physical market can be either in Singapore or in London, with appropriate price ad jus tmen ts for the cost of transporta- tion and insurance. The price of gold used for the manufac ture of ornaments is fixed by the Singapore Chinese Gold and Silver Merchants Association. On December 31, 1983 this price was about S$ l ,150 per tael for 24-karat gold and S$l,080 per tael for 22-karat gold. Classification and Customs Duties 1983, the classifica- tion categories were reduced by a half to about 2,600. May 2. Import duties on wines and spirits were raised from the range of 19-240 percent to the range of 22- 280 percent. Capital April 1. It was announced that all income earned w i th in the fo l low ing five years by Asian Currency Un i ts based in Singapore from loans syndicated in Singapore would be exempted from the 10 percent income tax provided tha t: (a) the en t i ty serving as lead manager was an ACU in Singapore (in the case of two or more lead managers, at least one half of the number should be financial ins t i tu t ions in Singapore), (b) the M in is t ry of Finance was satisfied that the bu lk of the syndication process had been done in Singapore, (c) there were at least three lenders, and (d) the loan involved was an offshore loan. May 1. It was announced that all income earned w i th in the next five years by nonresidents would be exempted from tax, provided that their funds were managed by approved ACUs and that the income was derived from offshore inves tmen t. In addition, manage- ment fees of the fund managers wou ld be taxed at the concessionary rate of 10 percent. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Under the revised Singapore Trade Payments for and Receipts from Invisibles April 1. The stamp du ty on trave ler's checks and other checks was abolished. 426 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Solomon Is lands is the Solomon Islands Dollar, issued by the Central Bank of Solomon Islands. The exchange rate for the Solomon Is lands dollar is determined on the basis of a re la t ionsh ip between the Solomon Islands dollar and a trade-weighted basket of the currencies of Solomon Is lands' four ma jor trading partners. The Central Bank may make discretion- ary ad jus tmen ts in the exchange va lue of the Solomon Islands dollar, up to a total of 2 percent du r ing any fou r- week period. Daily quotations for the four currenc ies in the basket, (the U . K. pound, the Japanese yen, the Australian dollar, and the U .S. do l lar) as we ll as for the German mark and the SDR, are provided by the Cen tral Bank, wh ich also sets l im i ts on the b u y i ng and se l l ing rates of commercial banks for the Au s t ra l ian dollar and the U .S. dollar. On December 31, 1983 the b u y i ng and selling rates quoted by the banks in the ir dea l ings w i th the public were $A 0.9151 and $A 0.9097, respec t ive ly, per SI$1, and US$0.8212 and US$0.8162, respec t ive ly, per SI$1. The commercial banks in Solomon I s lands are free to determine their exchange rates for all o ther foreign currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Solomon Is lands fo rma l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund 's A r t ic les of Agreement on J u ly 24, 1979. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank by means of the Exchange Control (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, wh ich came in to force on March 1, 1977. The Central Bank delegates extensive powers to com- mercial banks, wh ich have been appointed au thor ized dealers in foreign exchange. The authorized dealers may approve certain types of application for exchange control approval up to specified l im i t s. All persons residing in Solomon I s lands are regarded as permanent residents for exchange control purposes, unless they have been granted temporary resident s ta tus by an authorized dealer or by the Central B a n k. Applications for temporary resident status are no rma l ly approved if the person is a citizen of a foreign coun t ry who intends to reside in Solomon Islands for a period of less than four years or has resided in Solomon Is lands for over four years but who can produce evidence of f i rm intention to resume permanent residence overseas in the near fu tu r e. Owne rsh ip of real property (other than dwellings for own occupation) or a bus iness ind ica tes permanent residential s ta tus, regardless of the du ra t ion of residence in Solomon Is lands. However, temporary resident status does not release a person from the obligation to comply w i th all provisions of the exchange control regulations. Prescription of Currency Con t rac tual comm i tm en ts to persons res ident outside Solomon I s l and s, w h i ch are expressed in a foreign cu r rency, may on ly be met by p aym en ts in that foreign cu r rency. Export proceeds may be received in any fore ign cu r rency or in Solomon Is lands dollars from an account of an overseas bank w i th a bank in Solomon I s l and s. Nonresident Accounts Non r e s id en ts may open non re s ident accounts in Sol- omon I s l ands do l la rs w i th au thor ized dealers, but ap- proval from the Central Bank or au thor ized dealers is requ ired for the c red i t ing of these accoun ts. Balances on such accoun ts may be transferred abroad w i th the approval of the Central Bank or authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments No res t r ic t ions are placed on paymen ts for impor ts, provided that it can be shown that they are properly due overseas. Au tho r i z ed dealers are perm i t ted to approve most t ran sac t ions w i t h o ut reference to the Central B ank. Payments for Invisibles App roval is read i ly g iven for paymen ts for services and rem i t tances of d i v i d e n d s, p ro f i ts, and other earn ings acc ru ing to overseas res iden ts from companies in Sol- omon I s l a n d s, provided that it can be shown that they are proper ly due overseas. Permanent residents are per- mitted to purchase foreign exchange for payment of all types of inv i s ib l es if suppo r t ing documen ts are provided. Transfers by postal order to persons residing perma- n e n t ly ou ts ide Solomon Is lands are pe rm i t ted, provided th at the to tal am o u nt transferred does not exceed SI$100 a week. App roval is no rma l ly g iven for the purchase of fore ign cu r rency for t ravel purposes. App l ica t ions for travel f u n ds mu st be lodged w i th an authorized dealer, and app l ican ts are requ i red to present the ir passports and passage or f l i g ht t icke t s. Reques ts for u n u s u a l ly large amoun ts of fore ign exchange are referred to the Central B a n k. Travelers may not take out Solomon Is lands cu r rency notes and co in, in excess of SI$250, w i thout the approval of the Cen tral B a n k, wh ich is not no rma l ly g i v en. Exports and Export Proceeds Res iden ts may export goods w i thout exchange control fo rm a l i ty prov ided that they comp ly w i th the terms of the General Au tho r i ty issued by the Central Bank. The essen t ial cond i t ions of th is General Au tho r i ty are that p aym ent for goods exported is received w i t h in six mon ths before or a f ter the date of export, that the export price is reasonab le, and that the proceeds are sold to an au tho r ized dealer. Where exporters are not in a position 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOLOMON ISLANDS to comply w i th the conditions of the General Au tho r i ty, they must apply to the Central Bank for a Specific Au tho r i ty. Authority is not needed for goods under SI$250 in value in any one cons ignment or for certain exempted categories of goods, inc lud ing most k inds of personal effects of passengers. Proceeds from Invisibles Approval is required for the disposal of foreign currency proceeds other than by means of a sale to an authorized dealer. Overseas residents v is i t ing Solomon Islands may bring in any amount of currency for travel expenditure. Capital All outward transfers of capital require exchange control approval. All applications for transfers must be referred to the Central Bank. Approval is readily given for the w i thdrawal of nonresident-owned investment capital, repayment of overseas borrowings, and the remittance of temporary residents' and em igran ts' f u n d s. New investment abroad by permanent residents or by companies and other organizations operating in Solomon Islands is subject to certain l im i ta t ions. Direct inves t- ment overseas is permitted when it is likely to be of benefit to Solomon Islands. In the case of portfolio investments, the approval of the Central Bank is needed prior to the acquisition or disposal of foreign securities by a permanent res iden t. Approval is normally not given for the acqu is i t ion of overseas portfolio investments. Restrictions are not norma l ly imposed on the disposal of foreign securities acquired prior to March 1, 1977. Approval by the Central Bank is required for a resident to borrow funds from or to issue equ i ty capital to a nonres iden t. The Solomon Islands branch of a com- pany or f irm incorporated overseas requires approval by the Central Bank before it may borrow funds from a nonres iden t, inc lud ing the b ranch 's overseas head office. Where in i t ial or increased foreign investment is con- cerned, the Na t ional Inves tment Council in the Prime M in i s te r 's Office must also give its approval. Gold Solomon Islanders alone are granted a license to pan for a l luv ial gold. Commercial banks and all other residents are required to obtain a permit issued by the M in is t ry of Na tu ral Resources to m ine, b u y, or export go ld. The Central Bank is authorized to b u y, sell, and hold gold but has not yet under taken any such trans- actions. Changes During 1983 Administration of Control January 24. The Central Bank of Solomon Islands began operations to replace the Solomon Islands Mone- tary A u t h o r i t y. 428 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Somalia is the Somali S h i l l i n g, wh ich is pegged to the SDR. The exchange value of the sh i l l ing is adjusted for relative price developments in Somalia and the five countries whose currencies comprise the SDR basket. The central rate for the base mon th of Ju ly 1983 was So. Sh. 16.5 = SDR 1. Somalia applies margins of 7.5 percent around the fixed real-term relationship to the SDR, w i th ind ica t ive bands of ± 2.5 percent. The Central Bank of Somalia carries out exchange transactions in certain ''convertible" curren- c ies ,1 taking into account rates in European exchange markets. The exchange market in Somalia comprises the Central Bank and the sole commercial b ank, wh ich operates as the authorized exchange dealer in respect of transactions in foreign currencies. The au thor ized ex- change dealer generally does not conduct forward ex- change transactions on behalf of the pub l ic, although th is is not prohibited. There is an exchange p rem ium scheme under wh ich an additional margin of So. Sh. 5 per US$1 above the official exchange rate is provided for inward remittances by emigrant workers and capital inflows effected by Somali nationals abroad. Administration of Control The M in is t ry of Commerce is the principal govern- ment agency concerned w i th the implementation and operation of trade and exchange controls. The Central Bank is authorized to determine the rates at wh ich foreign currencies are to be negotiated, to es tab l ish a l i st of "convertible" currencies (see footnote 1), and to appoint authorized exchange dealers. The Central Bank may also implement the trade and exchange controls on behalf of the Ministry of Commerce. An Advisory Commission, consisting of n ine members, represen t ing various m in is t r ies, the Central B ank, the Customs Authority, and the police, advises the M in is t ry of Commerce on policy questions re la t ing to the regu la t ion and control of foreign economic transactions. The National and Local Licensing Committees, representing the Ministry of Commerce, the M in is t ry of Finance, the Central Bank, the Customs Au tho r i ty, and the police, decide on applications for licenses for imports and exports and for transfers in respect of services. The Central Bank grants licenses for certain rou t ine inv is- ibles. Transfers in respect of capital are authorized by the National Licensing Committee, unless they are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Inves tment Law. Beginning mid-1981, an Ad-hoc Committee on Foreign Exchange Transaction, consisting of representatives 'Deutsche mark, Djibouti francs, French francs, I t a l i an l ire, K uw a i ti d ina rs, pounds s te r l ing, Saudi A rab ian r i y a l s, Sw iss f r an c s, U . A . E. d i rhams, and U .S. do l la rs. from the M in i s t ry of Commerce, the Central Bank and the Commercial and Savings Bank, decides on foreign exchange allocation to importers who have been granted licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th the U . S . S .R. are made through b i la teral clearing accounts denominated in pounds ster- l ing. Settlements w i th all other countries mu st be made in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies (see footnote 1); however, residents are not permitted to make settlements w i th Israel or South Afr ica. Nonresident and Foreign Currency Accounts Nonresident accounts in Somali shillings may be opened w i th the authorized exchange dealer by Somali na t iona ls residing abroad, by foreign nationals and fore ign in s t i tu t ions h av ing d ip loma t ic status in Somalia, and by fore ign compan ies engaged in mineral prospect- ing or consultancy services. External accounts in U . S. dollars may be opened by Somali workers abroad and licensed import-export traders. Such accounts may be credited w i thout l im i ta t ion w i th foreign exchange transferred from abroad and may be debited for import payments, inv is ib le payments for personal purposes, and transfers to other ex ternal accounts. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods o r ig ina t ing in or shipped from Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Private importers can open letters of credit for import items not controlled exclusively by public importing agencies. Individual licenses are requ ired for all commodities. The state- trad ing o rgan iza t ion, the Na t ional Agency for Trade (ENC), is responsible for the import and distribution of certain commodities received under aid programs. The Iraqi-Somali Oil Refinery is responsible for the import of crude pe t ro leum, wh i le the Na t ional Petroleum Agency is the on ly importer of other fue ls and fuel products. The franco valuta system has been abolished, under wh ich licenses were issued freely to pr iva te importers who had obtained foreign exchange from sources outside Somalia (m a i n ly from Somali nationals working abroad) in order to pay for imports. The new arrangement calls for all pr iva te importers to apply for import licenses, wh i ch are issued on a case-by-case basis; qualified importers can purchase foreign exchange from the au thor ized dealer. A noninterest-bearing advance deposit up to 100 percent of va lue may be required to open letters of credit for pr iva te sector imports; the deposit is retained up to the se t t lement date of the letter of credit. If goods imported d i f fer in weight, quan t i ty, or value by more than 10 percent from the specifications in the import l icense, a new import license must be obtained. All imports other than those made by the Government, 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA diplomatic and consular agencies, and in te rna t ional organizations are subject to a s ta t is t ical and adm in is t ra- tive tax of 20 percent in addition to customs du t ies levied on the c . i . f. va lue of most imports. Payments for imports are authorized by the Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer on the basis of the import license and other documen ta t ion. Provided that the Central Bank or the au thor ized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transaction meets the legal require- ments, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the th i rd bus iness day fo l low ing the receipt of the application or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the applicant. The Central Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance paymen ts for imports ( i .e ., payment for merchandise that has not ac tua l ly passed through customs at the t ime of paymen t ), pro- vided that documentary evidence of ac tual sh ipment is produced. Advance paymen ts for imports w i thout docu- mentary evidence of actual sh ipment are not pe rm i t ted. Payments for imports from ne ighbor ing areas2 are permitted only by letter of credit and by cash aga inst documents. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel and South Afr ica are p roh ib i ted. Payments for current inv i s ib les are subject to l icen s ing, ma in ly to prevent unau tho r ized capital movemen ts; norma l ly, genu ine requirements are me t, provided that balance of payments considerations pe rm i t. Transfers of salaries, wages, g ra tu i t ies, and allowances paid in Somalia to foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Inves tment Law are no rma l ly allowed up to 50 percent. The Central Bank may grant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified l im i t s. The foreign exchange allocation for p i lgr images is So. Sh. 10,000 a person. For tourist travel by res iden ts, the allocation is So. Sh. 1,000 a person a year, wh i ch is applicable to all countries, except Canada, Japan, and the United States; for these three coun t r ies, the a l low- ance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. The foreign exchange allocation for business travel and t ravel for medical reasons is So. Sh. 1,000 a t r ip (So. Sh. 1,500 for Canada, Japan, and the Un i ted States). App l ica t ions for all other inv is ib les are considered on the ir merits by the Licensing Committees in Mogadiscio, Hargeisa, and Burao. Nonresident travelers may take out w i thout au tho r iza- tion any foreign exchange wh ich they b rought in and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and co in. Res ident travelers may take out w i thout au thor iza t ion So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coin and up to the equ iva lent of So. Sh. 200 in foreign bank notes and coin. A currency declaration is required from all persons leav ing the coun try. 2Ad en, D j ibou t i, E th iop ia, K e n y a, and M u k aww ar I s l a n d. 430 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel and South Afr ica are proh ib i ted. The export of a few commodities to any des t ina t ion may be proh ib i ted for reasons of pub l ic po l icy. An export license is required for all other commod i t ies. Bananas are exported on ly by the Somali Fruits Company (prev ious ly the Na t ional Banana Board). The ENC is the sole agent for the exportation of incense, my r rh, gum arabic, and charcoal. The export of sa l t, dried f i s h, and h ides and sk ins also is a pub l ic sector monopo ly. All export proceeds must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Central Bank or to the authorized exchange dealer w i t h in f ive bus iness days after their receipt. For exports other than those made under letter of credit arrangemen ts, an advance payment deposit of 30 percent of the v a lue of exports is required. There is a 25 percent tax on exports of livestock. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from inv is ib les must be repatriated, de- clared, and offered for sale to the Central Bank or to the au thor ized exchange dealer w i t h in f ive bus iness days af ter the ir receipt. Non res iden ts may freely b r ing in w i th them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali bank notes and coin; they must make a currency declaration when en te r ing the coun t ry. Resident travelers may b r ing in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali bank notes and coin and are ob l iged, upon a r r iva l, to declare and offer to surrender any foreign exchange or gold they bring in. Capital Cap i tal transac t ions are subject to l icens ing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Inves tment Law of February 1960, as amended in Janua ry 1977. In accor- dance w i th the prov is ions of that law, foreign enterprises mu st be registered w i th the Directorate of Planning and Coord ina t ion. For "productive" enterprises (as defined in the Foreign Inves tment Law ), profits may be transferred abroad freely up to a l im it of 30 percent a year of the capital invested; the unused portion of th is transfer right is cumu l a t ive for three years. Should profits in any one year be less than 30 percent, the transfer right for the succeeding three years is increased correspondingly. The capital i tse lf may be transferred abroad beg inn ing five years after the date of registration. Profits resu l t ing from other fore ign inves tmen ts may be transferred abroad up to a l im it of 10 percent a year of the capital invested, and the capital itself may be transferred abroad over a m i n im um period of three years, beg inn ing seven years after the date of registration. The M in i s t ry of F inance, upon the recommendation of other m in i s t r ies concerned, may extend total or partial exemp t ion from import and export taxes, excise du ty, income t ax, and mun i c ip al tax to any enterprise for a period not exceeding f ive years. Enterprises registered in or after March 1968 m u s t, to the largest possible extent, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution employ residents, and each enterprise must subm it to the Committee on Foreign Investments a program for the substitution of nonresidents by resident employees. Gold Residents may hold and acqu ire in Somalia, for num isma t ic purposes on ly, gold coins that are not legal tender in any coun t ry. W i th th is exception, residents other than the monetary au thor i t ies and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry require the permission of the Central Bank; such perm is- sion is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au thor i t ies and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down w i th in one month to a fineness of not more than 22 karats. Imports of gold are exempt from customs SOMALIA du ty when o r ig ina t ing in EC countries, and imports from elsewhere are subject to a 10 percent du ty. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement January I. An exchange p rem ium scheme was in- troduced under wh ich an add i t ional margin of So. Sh. 5 per US$1 above the o f f ic ial exchange rate was provided for inward rem i t tances by em igrant workers and capital in f lows effected by Somali na t iona ls abroad. July J. A new exchange arrangement was adopted under wh ich the Somali sh i l l ing was pegged to the SDR, adjusted for re la t ive price developments in Somalia and the f ive coun tr ies whose currencies comprise the SDR baske t. It was decided that da i ly exchange rates for the Somali s h i l l i ng wou ld be ma in ta ined w i t h in marg ins of 7.5 percent around the f ixed real-term re la t ionsh ip to the SDR, w i th ind ica t ive bands of ± 2.25 percent. The central rate for the base mon th of J u ly 1983 was established at So. Sh. 16.5 = SDR 1. 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of South A f r ica is the South A f r ican Rand. The au thor i t ies of South A f r ica do not m a in t a in margins in respect of exchange transactions but intervene in the exchange market to affect the rates quoted by the commercial banks for the rand. The p r inc ipal in te rven- tion currency is the U . S. do l la r. On December 30, 1983 the commercial b ank s' spot rates for the U . S. do l lar in transactions w i th the pub l ic were US$0 .8189 b u y i ng and US$0.8179 se l l ing, per R 1. Subject to cer ta in l im i ta t ions, au thor ized dealers are pe rm i t ted to conduct forward exchange operations, in c lud ing cover for t rans- actions by nonresidents on the Johanne sbu rg Stock Ex- change. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover in U .S. dollars only; such cover is given to authorized dealers for ma tur i t ies not exceeding 12 mon ths at a t im e, in the form of r a n d —U . S. do l lar swap t ransac t ions w i th a margin based on an interest rate d i f f e r en t i al between the U . S. dollar and the rand. The Reserve B ank also pro- vides forward cover contracts in U . S. do l lars for longer ma tur i t ies for governmen tal and other p u b l ic sector in s t i- tu t ions such as pub l ic corporations. Sou th A f r i c an gold m ines may sell forward in the market a portion of the projected fore ign exchange proceeds from the ir f u t u re sales of gold to the Reserve B ank. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. South Afr ica fo rma l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the F u n d 's A r t ic les of Agreement, as of September 15, 1973. Exchange Control Territory There are v i r tua l ly no exchange or trade res t r ic t ions between the Repub l ic of Sou th A f r ica (de f ined for exchange control purposes as i n c l u d i ng Sou th West A f r ica ), Lesotho, and Sw a z i l and, and these fo rm, w i th the Repub l ic of South A f r i c a, a s ing le exchange control territory, the Rand Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange l icens ing is the re spon s ib i l i ty of the Treas- u ry, wh ich has delegated t h is a u t h o r i ty to the Sou th African Reserve Bank; in t u r n, the Reserve Bank has delegated much of its l icen s ing powers to the au tho r ized dealers. Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Import and Export ac t ing on beha lf of the M in is ter for Indu s t r ie s, Commerce, and Tou r i sm. Ex- change for licensed imports is made av a i l ab le by the authorized dealers upon proof of sh ipment or, where advance payment is proposed, upon p re sen ta t ion of o ther documentary ev idence, w h i ch mu st i n c l u de the pr ior approval of the Reserve B a n k .! 'Au tho r ized dealers can pe rm i t, w i t h o ut Reserve Bank app rova l, advance p a ym e nt of up to 33'/S pe rcent of the ex - f a c to ry cost of c a p i t al goods if such is the r e q u i r em e nt of s u p p l i e r s. 432 Prescription of Currency A ll coun t r ies ou ts ide the Rand Monetary Area consti- tu te the Non res ident Area. The on ly settlement currency accepted in all countries in the Rand Monetary Area is the r a n d .2 Se t t lemen ts by residents of the Rand Mone- tary Area w i th the Non res ident Area, may be made in rand to and from a Non re s ident Account and in any spec if ied cu r rency3 and, for ou tgo ing paymen ts on ly, in any fore ign cu r r en cy .4 Nonresident Accounts The rand accoun ts of persons res ident ou ts ide the Rand Mone ta ry Area are d iv ided in to Non res ident Accoun ts and Blocked Accoun t s. Nonresident Accounts are held by persons, f i rm s, or compan ies ( i n c l u d i ng bank s) re s iden t, dom i c i l ed, or registered ou ts ide the Rand Mone tary Area. They may be credited w i th all authorized paymen ts by South A f r i c an re s iden t s, w i th the proceeds of sales to au tho- rized dealers in South Afr ica of specified currency, w i th paymen ts from o ther Non res ident Accoun ts in South A f r i c a, and w i th the local sale proceeds of nonresident- owned assets. They may be debited for paymen ts to South A f r i c an res iden ts for any purpose; for paymen ts to non re s iden ts for any purpose, that is, by t ran s fer to a local Non re s ident A c coun t, or for rem i t tance to any coun t ry ou t s ide the Rand Mone tary Area; for the cost of pu rchases of any fo re ign cu r rency; and for paymen ts to the account ho lder w h i le t empo r a r i ly res ident in South A f r ica for short per iods. Blocked Accounts are the accounts of emigrants from the Rand Mone ta ry Area to w h i ch exchange control res tr ic t ions have been app l ied. They must be credited w i th any cash he ld at the t ime of depar ture and w i th the proceeds of any other Sou th A f r i c an asset he ld at the t ime of depa r tu re and s u b s e q u e n t ly sold. Such f u n ds may not be transferred from Sou th A f r i ca or to another B locked Account in Sou th A f r i c a, but may be re ta ined on deposit w i th an au tho r ized dea le r, used w i t h in certain l im i ts for the ho lde r 's l i v i ng expenses w h i le v i s i t i ng " L i l a n g e ni b a nk no tes i s sued by Sw a z i l a nd a re f ree ly conv e r t ib le i n to r a n d, at p a r, w i t h o ut r e s t r i c t i on at the C en t r al B a nk of Sw a z i l a n d, but th ey a re not l e g al t e n d er in Sou th A f r i c a. The same ru l es app ly to m a l o ti b a nk no tes i s su ed by Leso tho. Checks and o ther b i l ls of e x c h a n ge d r awn by Lesotho and Swazi r e s i d e n ts for p a ym e nt w i t h in the R and Mon e t a ry Area m u st be d e n om i n a t ed in r a n d. ^ A u s t r a l i an d o l l a r s, A u s t r i an s c h i l l i n g s, B e l g i an f r an c s, Canad ian d o l l a r s, D a n i sh k r o n e r, d e u t s c he m a r k, F i ji d o l l a r s, F rench f r an c s, Hong K o ng d o l l a r s, I n d i an rupee s, I t a l i an l i r e, Japanese y en, K e n ya s h i l l i n g s, M a l ag a sy f r a n c s, M a l awi kw a c h a, Ne the r lands g u i l d e r s. N ew Z e a l and d o l l a r s, N o rw e g i an k ron e r, P ak i s t an rupees, Po r tuguese e scudo s, pounds s t e r l i n g, S ey ch e l l es rupees, Sp an i sh pese tas, S ri L a n ka rupee s, Sw ed i sh k rono r, Sw iss f r a n c s, Uganda s h i l l i n g s, U . S. d o l l a r s, z a i r e s, a nd Z am b i an kw a c h a. 4Foreign cu r rency is any currency or payment in s t rument for cu r r en cy o ther t h an a cu r r en cy t h at is legal t end er in a coun t ry in the R and M o n e t a ry A r e a. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution South Africa, or for other specified payments to resi- dents, or be invested in any securitites that are quoted locally; such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad. Imports and Import Payments Apart from the 33 groups of goods subject to specific import control, import permits are required for six broad product categories, which are not interchangeable among groups. All importers requiring import permits for trade or manufacturing purposes must be registered w i th the Director of Import and Export Control. The licenses are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of permit include all goods imported from Botswana, Lesotho, Ma law i, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe that were grown, produced, or manufactured in those countries, with the exception of sugar from Swaziland and tea from Malawi and Zimbabwe. The Import Control Regulations5 for 1981 distinguish between the following broad categories of imports: (1) goods that may be imported w i thout an import permit, and (2) goods that may be imported only under permit. An importer is automatically granted exchange to pay for the import upon presenting to his bank the necessary consignment documents (proof of importation), and an import permit where required. Payments prior to the date of shipment or dispatch are not normally allowed except with prior approval or special authorization by the Reserve Bank (see footnote 1). With certain exceptions, imports are subject to a general sales tax of 6 percent,6 as are locally produced goods. Payments for Invisibles Authority is delegated to the authorized dealers to approve certain current payments for invisibles w i thout limitation and for others up to established l im i t s. Applications for amounts in excess of these limits are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. For current income payments, such as declared d iv idends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South A f r ica, approval is given by the authorized dealers without reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that the relative royalty agreement was approved by the Department of Industries and Commerce and the Reserve Bank, and the remittance of profits and dividends does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable consideration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income derived from securities acquired w i th blocked funds or otherwise held by nonresidents is freely transferable to the owner's country of residence. Limited 5W i th effect from January 1, 1984 import controls have been abolished on 90 d ifferent categories of goods, inc lud ing pharmaceu t i- cals, hand tools, toys, and carpets. 6The general sales tax has been raised to 7 percent w i th e f fect from February 1, 1984. SOUTH AFRICA amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, family maintenance, e tc ., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a year is R 6,000 for an adu lt and R 3,000 for a child under 12 years. Separately, there is an annual basic exchange allocation of R 2,000 for an adult (R 1,000 for a child under 12) for travel to Ango la, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe, and the Indian Ocean Islands. In addition to the tourist allowances, authorized dealers may grant allowances for business trips overseas at a rate not exceeding R 500 a day, w i th a m ax imum of R 10,000 in a calendar year. The separate applicable allowance for business trips to the neigh- boring territories mentioned above is R 4,000 a year, at a rate not exceeding R 400 a day. Residents leaving South Africa for destinations out- side the Rand Monetary Area may take the fu ll applica- ble allowance in foreign bank notes. The amount of South Afr ican Reserve Bank notes, however, may not exceed R 200, but these are not regarded as being part of the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa may take w i th them up to R 200 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes wh ich they brought into the country or obtained from the disposal of ins trumen ts of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South A f r ica. These limitations on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of contract workers re turn ing to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take w i th them reasonable amounts in bank notes. There are no limitations on the export of domestic currency to Lesotho and Swaziland. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities considered as being in re la t ive ly short supply or controlled for strategy reasons require export permits for their sales to buyers outside the Un i ted K ingdom, any Commonwealth coun- t ry, any British colony, protectorate, or trust territory, and the United States. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South A f r ica and surrendered w i th in six months from the date of shipment or seven days from the date of accrual. Exporters may grant credit up to 12 months, provided the credit is necessary in the particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or to capture a new export market. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days from the date of accrual, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry from countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, residents and nonresidents may bring in R 200 in South African Reserve Bank notes. There are no l im i ta t ions on the import of domestic currency from Lesotho and Swaz i land. 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Capital1 All inward loan transfers require specific app rova l ,8 wh i le inward transfers for inves tment in equ i ty capital are freely permitted. Foreign exchange acc ru ing to residents from capital transfers and transactions mu st be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents to destinations outside the Rand Monetary Area require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled f irms is subject to l im i ta t ion. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South Afr ican (or other) shares on foreign stock exchanges are generally not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 through f in an c i al rand for each shareholder, to allow South Afr ican residents to exercise rights arising from ex is t ing ho ld ings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock ex- changes), although South Afr ican stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net ou tf low of exchange. Applications by South A f r ican residents to retain in, or transfer to, countries outside the Rand Monetary Area funds for bona fide long-term inves tment in specific development projects or for the expans ion of existing projects that are owned or controlled by South Afr icans are considered by the Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits. Inves tmen ts designed to foster exports and to ma in ta in or expand markets abroad are normally viewed favo rab ly. Immigrants are required to fu rn ish the exchange control authorities w i th a complete return of the ir foreign assets and liabilities at the t ime of the ir arr iva l. Any foreign assets transferred to South Afr ica may be retransferred abroad w i t h in the f irst three years after arrival. The proceeds of the sale of quoted or unquo ted South Afr ican securities, real estate, and other equ i ty inves t- ments by nonresidents of South A f r ica to residents must be credited to Nonresident Accoun ts and are accordingly transferable. Emigrant families are entitled to the normal travel allowance and are permitted to rem it up to R 100,000 (R 50,000 for single persons). Any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount must be credited to a Blocked Account. The total net income earned from an em igran t's blocked assets may be transferred. An emi- grant fam i ly or a person can export one motor veh ic le, 7For exchange con trol purposes, a non re s ident is de f ined as a person whose normal place of residence or dom ic i le is ou ts ide the Rand Monetary Area. Securities are de f ined as i n c l u d i ng not on ly quo ted stocks, shares, debentures, and rights but also unquoted shares in pub l ic companies, shares in p r iva te compan ies, gov e rnm en t, m u n i c i- pa l, and pub l ic u t i l i ty stocks, non res iden t -owned mortgage bonds or participations in mortgage bonds, and na t ional sav ings ce r t i f ica tes. The terms "scrip" and "share certificates" in c lude any temporary or subs t i tu te documen ts of t i t le, such as letters of a l l o tm e n t, op t ion cer t if ica tes, balance receipts, and any other receipts for sc r ip. 8Approval is gene ra l ly g iven for borrow ing abroad w i th a m a t u r i ty of at least six mon ths by domestic en t rep reneu rs, except for specu la t ion or consumer cred i t. Au thor ized dealers gene ra l ly are pe rm i t ted to raise funds abroad in the ir own names for the f i n a n c i ng of Sou th A f r i c an fore ign trade and other approved purposes. 434 w i th a max imum va lue of R 20,000, provided that it was purchased at least one year prior to emigration, and can export other household and personal effects up to a value of R 20,000 for each f am i ly, provided that such goods, other than c lo th ing, have been in the em igran t's posses- sion for a period of not less than one year. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or approved loan account balances, of profits and dividends declared on prof i ts, provided that the remittance does not invo lve the excessive use of local credit facilities. The phys ical export from South Africa of nonresident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants on their departure. Gold Residents of South Afr ica may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic and inves tment purposes. W i th th is exception, residents of South A f r ica other than the monetary authorities, autho- rized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized indus t r ial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, ho ld, or sell gold in any form other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank; the approval au thor i ty has been delegated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewe lry constituting the personal effects of a traveler (subject to a written declaration to the effect that the jewelry will be brought back to South A f r ica on the traveler's re turn) and in respect of exports of gold jewe lry by manu fac tu r ing jewelers (except for exports to Bo tswana, Ma law i, Zambia, and Zimbabwe), subject to a written declaration that the articles are in f u l ly manufac tured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 80 percent of the selling price to the u l t ima te consignee. Furthermore, after reference and approval by the Reserve Bank, residents are allowed to export currency coins, inc lud ing certain gold coins, for sale to num i sm a t i s t s. The gold m in ing indus try must sell its ou tput to the Reserve Bank w i th in one month of produc t ion. As a special concession, the industry may retain approximately one third of its production for the m i n t i ng of gold coins and k i lo bars. The M int from t ime to t ime strikes gold coins and the Krugerrand w i thout a face va lue, wh ich are legal tender but do not circulate in South Africa; these are made available in l im i ted numbers to resident collectors, while the bu lk is sold abroad. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement September 5. The Reserve Bank ceased to quote its own spot exchange rate. In addition, in a modification of its system of prov id ing forward cover to authorized dealers, the Reserve Bank ceased to provide such cover in the form of forward contracts and required the banks henceforth to enter into swap contracts w i th the Reserve Bank in respect of their forward cover needs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution October 23. Authorization was granted for South African gold mines to sell forward in the market a portion of the projected foreign exchange proceeds from their fu tu re sales of gold to the Reserve Bank. Nonresident Accounts July 6. The d is t inc t ion previously drawn between Nonresident, Botswana, and Zimbabwean accounts was abolished; all such accounts were designated Nonresi- dent Accounts. Imports and Import Payments February 5. The import surcharge rate was reduced to 5 percent. November 29. The import surcharge of 5 percent was abolished. Payments for Invisibles February 7. Changes were made in existing regula- tions as follows: (a) the basic foreign exchange allow- ances were increased from R 4,000 a person to R 6,000 a person a calendar year for tourist trave l, and from R 250 a day (with a max imum of R 7,500 a calendar year) to R 500 a day (w i th a max imum of R 10,000 a calendar year) for business travel; (b) authorization was granted for emigrants to transfer up to R 100,000 through ordinary banking channels at the prevailing un i tary exchange rate; and (c) transfers from estates of deceased persons were allowed through normal bank ing channe ls SOUTH AFRICA at the un i tary rate of exchange up to R 100,000 a beneficiary, w i thout prior reference to the Reserve Bank; for additional amoun ts, arrangements could be made in legitimate cases w i th the exchange control authorities through the intermediation of an authorized foreign exchange dealer. Capital February 7. In a liberalization of exchange controls on capital transactions by nonresidents, local proceeds of sales of quoted and unquoted South Afr ican securities, real estate, and other equity investments held by nonresi- dents ceased to be designated as "financial rand" but were made freely transferable from South Afr ica through normal bank ing channels at the ru l ing un i ta ry rate of exchange; such proceeds could also be freely used in the Rand Monetary Area by nonresidents for investment or other purposes. March 7. The limit on cash balances held abroad by South Afr ican banks was increased from R 300 million to R 600 m i l l ion. Gold September 1. The Reserve Bank commenced the practice of paying the South African gold mines in U .S. dollars; like other exporters, the mines were required to sell the dollars to authorized dealers within seven days of receipt. 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Spain is the Spanish Peseta. The authorities of Spain do not maintain marg ins in respect of exchange transactions, and exchange rates are deter- mined largely on the basis of demand and supp ly conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to smooth out f luc tua t ions in exchange rates and to ma in ta in stability in the exchange market. Off ic ial buy ing and selling rates for specified currenc iesl are fixed da i ly by the Bank of Spain (the central bank ), acting in consu l ta- tion with the authorized banks. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The Bank of Spain also quotes each week b u y i ng and selling rates for bank notes in specified currencies. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the Bank of Spain, wh ich publishes the rates at wh ich it settles direct transactions. These rates are the same as the prevailing rates for the U .S. dollar. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in foreign markets for spot and forward transactions related to commercial operations up to 360 days. Forward cover may be provided to residents for all permitted foreign exchange receipts and for import paymen t s. Forward contracts may not exceed 12 mon ths, and forward purchases and sales of exchange are restricted to curren- cies admitted to the Madrid foreign exchange ma rke t. The terms of the forward contract must coincide w i th the terms of the commercial transactions that are being covered. The forward position of an ind iv idu al bank at the close of each day must not reflect a net buy ing or selling position in U .S. dollars in excess of US$1 m i l- lion; in French francs, deutsche mark, Swiss f ranc s, Italian lire, and Japanese yen in excess of US$0.25 mil- lion; and in each other convertible currency in excess of US$100,000. In addition, commercial banks can pur- chase foreign exchange to cover a forward contract six months prior to the ma tu r i ty of con trac t. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceu ta, and Me l i l la constitute a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control The guidelines on foreign exchange policy are for- mulated by an interministerial commission. The M in is try of Economy and Commerce is in charge of adm in is tra- tive functions connected w i th exchange and trade con- trols, as well as controls over Spanish inves tment 'Au s t r ian sch i l l ing s, Be lg ian f rancs, Canad ian do l l a r s, D an i sh kroner, deutsche ma rk, F inn i sh ma rkkaa, French f ranc s, I r ish pound s, Italian lire, Japanese y en, Ne the r lands gu i ld e r s, No rweg ian k rone r, Portuguese escudos, pounds s te r l ing, Swed ish k rone r, Sw i ss f r an c s, and U .S. dollars. 436 abroad, private Spanish lending abroad, foreign financ- ing of trade, and the registration of foreign investments in Spa in. The Bank of Spain is in charge of operative fun c t ion s, in par t icu lar, the hand l ing of external re- serves. It is also responsible for the authorization of foreign currency short-term and long-term loans to residents for nontrade purposes. Contracts relating to technological matters must be registered w i th the Minis- try of Indu s t ry and Energy. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and inv is ib les may be made in any specified currency (see footnote 1), but they are usua l ly made in the currency of the coun try of origin or destination. There are no b i la teral paymen ts arrangements. Nonresident Accounts There are several types of nonresident accounts, as fo l lows: Convertible Peseta Accounts. Following abolition in J anu a ry 1981 of the A Accounts and B Accounts in pesetas, nonresidents are now permitted to hold Convert- ible Peseta Accoun ts, balances in wh ich can be freely converted in to foreign currency; ex is t ing peseta balances in A Accoun ts and B Accounts automatically become convertible peseta balances. These Convertible Peseta Accoun ts may be credited w i th the proceeds of foreign currency (other than bank notes) sold in the Spanish foreign currency marke t, w i th authorized payments made by residents to nonresidents as a result of any balance of paymen ts transaction, w i th accrued interest on such accoun ts, and w i th transfer from other such accounts. Convertible Peseta Accounts may be debited for purchases of equ iva lent amounts of foreign currency and bank notes in the Spanish foreign currency market, for authorized paymen ts in pesetas to residents as a result of any balance of paymen ts transaction, for cash draw- ings by nonres iden ts, and for transfers to other peseta accounts. Interest on Convertible Peseta Accounts can be freely established by authorized banks, and balances are not subject to reserve requirements. Balances in Con- vertible Peseta Accoun ts are eligible for forward cover in the Span ish forward exchange market. External Accounts in Internal Pesetas are designed to hold nonres iden ts' funds accruing in Spain that are not transferable abroad. Au toma t ic approval is given to open such accoun ts. Balances are freely negotiable between nonresidents ho ld ing such accounts. These accounts may be credited free ly w i th (1) the fu ll proceeds of the sale by a nonresident to a resident of Spanish real estate or ig ina l ly acquired w i th pesetas from an External Ac- count in In te rnal Pesetas; (2) the fu ll proceeds of the sale by a nonres ident to a resident of Spanish shares and f ixed- in terest securities that have been acquired with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution pesetas from an External Account in Internal Pesetas and have been held for less than three years consecutively by the same owner;2 (3) interest received on balances held in these accounts; and (4) transfers from any other External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. They may be debited freely for (1) payments of any amount of personal expenses in Spain of the account holder and his close relatives (a manager's personal expenses if the account is opened in the name of a juridical person); (2) the purchase of shares quoted on the stock exchange and of Spanish fixed-interest securities; (3) the purchase for the use of the account holder (provided that the account holder is a nonresident physical person) of urban and rural properties that do not represent investment for commercial, industrial, or agricultural purposes (appli- cable to rural properties only if the account holder is of Spanish nationality); (4) the purchase of National Lottery tickets; and (5) transfers to any other External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. All other entries on these accounts require prior authorization, and the accounts may not be overdrawn. Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Curren- cies may be held by nonresidents; resident foreign nationals may maintain such accounts only if opened before January 1, 1968, in order to ma in ta in acquired rights. The deposits may be either sight or time. The accounts may be credited w i th convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market and w i th any amount of interest. They may be debited freely for reconversion into the currency initially deposited, for the purchase of other convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market, and for conversion into pesetas, including the transfer to a Convertible Peseta Account. Overdrafts are prohibited except for mail credits in favor of foreign banks. Emigrants' Accounts. Since October 29, 1970, com- mercial banks have been authorized to open savings accounts in convertible pesetas for Spanish citizens working abroad. The regulations were modified by Royal Decree No. 1222/77. Tourist Accounts. Foreign nonresident tourists in Spain may open ordinary peseta accounts with autho- rized institutions in an amount not exceeding Ptas 200,000 for an account; such an account must always show a credit balance position. These accounts may be credited with receipts from foreign exchange conversion, with peseta bank notes in the possession of the tourist on entering Spain (a max imum of Ptas 150,000 in each tr ip), w i th funds from other Convertible Peseta Accounts, and w i th ordinary pesetas received in Spain by the tourist. Debits on such accounts may be made to cover the tourist's l iv ing expenses in Spain as well as payments of the tourist's household expenses. Balances in these accounts cannot be trans- ferred abroad. 2The proceeds of such securities that have been held for at least three years consecutively are transferable abroad. SPAIN Nonresident Accounts Relating to Execution of Busi- ness Contracts. Nonresidents must open a peseta account in an authorized institution in connection w i th the execution of business projects for a resident, to facilitate reporting on receipts and payments under such contracts. Such accounts may be credited w i th working capital brought in by the nonresident contractor and w i th payments over time by the residents concerned. Funds imported under this arrangement must be converted into pesetas, are non-interest-bearing, and may not be repatri- ated un t il after six months from the entry date. The accounts may be debited w i th payments by nonresidents for the execution of the project. Balances on such accounts are transferable abroad, after verification by the Directorate-General of External Transactions that the amoun ts conform to the terms of the contracts. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are admitted under the fo l low ing ar- rangements: (1) free imports, (2) global quotas, (3) state trading, and (4) individual licensing, also referred to as the "bilateral import regime." All imports require either an import license or an "import declaration" issued by the Directorate-General of Tariff Policy and Imports (M in is try of Economy and Commerce). Provided that import prices are not considered abnormal, import declarations are issued freely for a large number of goods (mostly foodstuffs not under state trading, raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts, and also some consumer goods) included in an import free list that applies to most coun tr ies .3 All other imports require licenses. There are global quotas for specified imports from countries to which the free list applies, but licenses are usua l ly granted for larger amounts; separate global quotas exist for imports of these same commodities from EC countries. W i th certain exceptions, the global quota regime also applies to goods of Japanese origin. Licenses for imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, Poland, Roman ia, and the U .S .S .R. are issued free ly. Imports of cotton, certain other agr icu l tural products, and tobacco are state traded. Some goods formally listed as be ing subject to state trading, such as feedgrains and raw cotton, may be freely imported by private traders. Imports of certain agricultural products that are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction and previously were state traded are subject to variable import levies. Import subsidies are paid on certain foodstuffs and specified other essential commodities. Exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted free ly. Except for capital goods, suppliers' credit for imports is not normally permitted to exceed 90 days. All import transactions must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank, and the import payment must be made through the bank of domiciliation; exempt from domiciliation are transac- 3The import free l ist does not app ly to A fgh an i s t an, A lban ia, Andorra, B h u t a n, People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Repub l ic, Mongolia, Nepa l, San Mar ino, Tibet, U . S . S . R ., and Viet Nam. 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN tions valued at less than Ptas 0 .5 m i l l i o n, prov ided that payment is to be made w i t h in one year. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to sell fore ign exchange free ly for listed current inv i s ib le s, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documen ts to v e r i fy the a u t h e n- t ic i ty of the transac t ion. Ho lders of Span ish secu r i t ies may freely transfer abroad accrued in t e r e s t, d i v i d e n d s, and proceeds from the disposal of subsc r ip t ion r igh t s; the securities must have been pu rchased w i th conv e r t ib le pesetas, w i th pesetas resulting from the sale of fore ign exchange, or w i th pesetas released from Ex te rnal Ac- counts in In ternal Pesetas. Profits and d i v i d e n ds on direct inves tmen ts are also free ly t ran s fe rab le abroad. Rents on nonresident-owned real estate are t r an s f e r ab l e, provided that the purchase price has been pa id in f u l l. A general license perm i ts the re insu rance abroad of r isks insured in Spain w i th Span ish f i rms or w i th fore ign insurance companies operating in Spa in. Un le ss special au thor iza t ion is o therw ise g ran ted, in su rance con trac ts abroad are restricted to cover for exports and impo r ts of goods and related operations. Payments up to Ptas 50,000 for any purpose may be made w i thout any suppor t ing do cum en t s. For larger paymen ts, declarations to the D irec tora te-General of External Transactions in the M in i s t ry of Economy and Commerce are requ i red. The bas ic exchange a l low an ce for tou r ism is Ptas 80,000 a person a j o u r n e y, w i th an annual m a x im um of Ptas 320,000. The au tho r ized b anks are free to sell the equ iva lent of Ptas 200,000 a person for each bus iness t r ip, w i th an a n n u al m a x im um of Ptas 1.4 m i l l i o n, and any amount for t ravel for edu c a t ion or hea l th care. Travelers may take w i th them Ptas 20,000 in notes of the B ank of Spa in. The sale of fo re ign exchange for amoun ts in excess of the above l im i ts and for current inv i s ib l es not sp e c i f i c a l ly l i s ted requ i res a prior declaration to the M i n i s t ry of Economy and Commerce. Proceeds from the l iqu id a t ion of fo re ign i n v e s tm e n ts are freely transferable abroad provided they were not financed from External Accounts in In ternal Pesetas. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are subject to prior l i c e n s i ng by the D irec- torate-General of Expo r ta t ion. All export proceeds m u st be sold in the exchange ma rket or to the B ank of Spa in through authorized banks w i t h in 15 days of rece ip t. Certain ag r icu l tu ral produc ts may be sub ject to an export t ax, but th is practice is u n u s u a l. S ince A p r il 1980 some goods inc luded in a l i st pub l i sh ed by the D irec tora te- General of Expor ta t ion may be exported w i t h o ut a license if payment is made in conve r t ib le fo re ign currency and w i t h in s ix mon ths of export; in t h is case, on ly a declaration before the cus toms is r equ i r ed. Proceeds from Invisibles A ll exchange proceeds from i n v i s i b l es m u st be sold in the exchange market or to the B ank of Spa in t h r o u gh authorized banks w i t h in 15 days of rece ip t. 438 Capital 1. Inward Transfers (a) Foreign direct investments. As a general ru le, there are no restrictions on foreign capital investments w h i ch lead to owne r sh ip of up to 50 percent of the capital of Span ish compan ies, or are related to cap i tal increases in Span ish compan ies where the fore ign par t ic ipa t ion ra t io is not a l tered. Prior adm in i s t r a t ive au tho r iza t ion is n o rm a l ly requ i red for fore ign inve s tmen ts of more than 50 pe rcen t. Special fore ign par t ic ipa t ion ratios and regu la t ions apply to ce r ta in specific a c t iv i t i e s .4 Thus, fo re ign cap i tal inv e s tm en ts are not a l lowed in defense indu s t r i e s, the news med ia, and p u b l ic u t i l i t i e s, wh i le in p u b l ic service compan ies fo re ign cap i tal ho ld ings may not exceed 25 pe rcen t. Under Royal Decree No. 622/ 1981 of Ma rch 27, 1981, inves tmen ts by foreign res iden ts w i th o rd ina ry pesetas are not considered as fo re ign inv e s tm en t s. Where i n v e s tm e nt au tho r i z a t ion is needed, the process is d e c en t r a l i z ed, w i th approval from the Council of M in i s t e rs needed o n ly wh en the inve s tment amoun ts are over Ptas 500 m i l l i o n. For lower amoun t s, au thor iza t ion is g iven by the M i n i s t ry for Economy and Commerce or the D irec tora te-General of Ex te rnal Transactions w i th the pa r t ic ipa t ion in some cases of the Foreign Inves tment Board. The Royal Decree also au thor izes Spanish branches of fo re ign compan ies to carry out direct i n v e s tm e n t s, sub ject to the approval of the Directorate- General of Ex te rnal Transac t ions. U n d er Royal Decree No. 623 /1981, of March 27, 1981, fo re ign inv e s tm ent up to Ptas 25 m i l l i o n, carried out by non re s iden ts or Span ish f i rms w i th foreign par t ic ipa t ion, for the es tab l ishment of new firms (or the a c q u i s i t i on of b ranches of real estate) is unres tr ic ted. The Royal Decree also gran ts general au thor iza t ion for Sp an i sh compan ies to e f fect cap i tal increases debited to free d isposab le rese rves, provided that there is no increase in the percen tage of fore ign participation. S im i l ar a u t h o r i z a t i on is granted for fore ign inves tment in cap i tal increases for the no rmal expans ion of Spanish compan ie s, w i t h o ut inc rea s ing the percentage of foreign pa r t ic ipa t ion. U n d er t h is Royal Decree, foreign invest- men ts w i t h in the spec if ied l ibe ra l ized regime must be declared to the D irec tora te-General of Ex ternal Transac- t ions (M i n i s t ry of Economy and Commerce) for verifica- t ion; they may be t ak en as accepted if there is no response f rom the la t ter w i t h in 30 wo rk ing days. Foreign d irect in v e s tm en ts are also authorized in Sp an i sh compan ies that are in the process of increasing t h e ir c a p i t a l. Th is may be effected th rough the purchase 4The f o r e i gn c o n t e nt of i n v e s tm e nt by Sp an i sh compan ies with f o r e i gn p a r t i c i p a t i on is d e t e rm i n ed in the f o l l ow i ng manne r: (1) if f o r e i gn p a r t i c i p a t i on exceeds 50 p e r c en t, the i n v e s tm e nt is considered 100 pe rcent f o r e i g n; (2) if f o r e i gn p a r t i c i p a t i on is over 25 percent but equ al to or less t h an 50 p e r c e n t, the i n v e s tm e nt is considered foreign to the e x t e nt of su ch p a r t i c i p a t i o n; n ev e r th e l e s s, if fo re ign investors enjoy a p o s i t i on of d om i n a n c e, the i n v e s tm e nt is considered 100 percent f o r e i g n; and (3) if f o r e i gn p a r t i c i p a t i on is 25 percent or less or if there is S p a n i sh G o v e r nm e nt p a r t i c i p a t i o n, the i n v e s tm e nt is considered d om e s t i c. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of shares or inve s tment in the c a p i t a l, p rov ided t h at the company creates 100 pe rmanent jobs, t h at the fo re ign currency account shows a positive ba lance af ter one year of p roduc t ion, that the total cap i tal and reserves of the company are increased by at least 30 pe rcen t, and t h at at least Ptas 100 m i l l i on is inves ted in the pu r ch a se of shares. Foreign inve s tmen ts may be e f fec ted by t r a n s f e r r i ng currenc ies that a re nego t iab le in the Sp an i sh e x c h a n ge market, by us ing conver t ib le pesetas, by b r i n g i ng in capital goods, by r e i n v e s t i ng p ro f i ts or c a p i t al t r a n s f e r- able under the Foreign I n v e s tm e nt L aw, or by p r o v i d i ng technology, pa ten ts, or l icenses. P ro f i ts and d i v i d e n ds on direct inve s tmen ts are f r e e ly t r an s f e r ab le abroad. Proceeds, i n c l u d i ng cap i tal g a i n s, from the l i q u i d a t i on of foreign d irect inv e s tm en ts may be t r an s f e r r ed f r e e l y. (b) Portfolio investments. Such i n v e s tm e n ts in shares are treated as d irect i n v e s tm e n t. Pu rchases by n o n r e s i- dents of shares in most Span i sh comp an i es are u n r e- stricted up to 50 percent of the c a p i t al of S p a n i sh companies; purchases of bonds are un re s t r ic ted. Th is applies to shares acqu i red by Span ia rds r e s id ent abroad as we ll as by res ident or non re s ident fo re igne rs w i th fore ign c ap i t a l. Por tfo l io and d i r e ct i n v e s tm e n ts in nonspec if ied sectors by non re s ident fo re igne rs are not considered as fo re ign i n v e s tm e n t s. Proceeds, i n c l u d i ng cap i tal g a in s, from the l i q u i d a t i on of such shares may be transferred abroad at any t ime or used for f u r t h er purchases of sha res .5 Purchases by n o n r e s i d e n ts of bonds and other f ix ed - in come s e c u r i t i es r ep r e s en t ing debts of e i ther Span ish compan ies or the S p a n i sh Government and its agencies are un res t r ic ted when financed as ind ica ted in th is pa rag raph, and the f u ll sa les proceeds are t rans fe rab le. The purchase by n o n r e s i d e n ts of bank certificates of deposit requ i res spec ial a u t h o r i z a- t ion, but non res iden ts may f ree ly pu rcha se bonds issued by banks w i th a m a t u r i ty of f i ve years or mo re. (c) Real estate investments. Foreign i n v e s tm e nt of up to Ptas 25 m i l l i on carried out by non r e s id en ts or Sp an i sh f i rms w i th fore ign pa r t ic ipa t ion, for the a c q u i s i t i on of branches of real estate (or the e s t a b l i s hm e nt of new f i rms) is not subject to res t r ic t ions. I n v e s tm e nt of over Ptas 25 m i l l ion in Spanish real estate by nonres iden ts is, w i t h in certain l im i t s ,6 f ree ly pe rm i t ted if f in an c ed w i th pesetas der ived from conve r t ib le cu r renc ies or f rom balances in Conve r t ib le Peseta A c c o u n ts he ld by non re s- iden ts. The M i n i s t ry of Economy and Comme rce has empowered au thor ized banks to p rov ide the inv e s tor w i th a document c e r t i fy ing that he owns such pese tas; this is the only requ irement for o f f ic ial registration of the 5H ow e v e r, if t he pu rcha se w as made w i th i n t e r n al pese tas, t he owner of the shares mu st ho ld t h em for th ree y e a r s, a l t er w h i ch he may t r an s f er the l i q u i d a t i on proceeds ab road. ''Purchases of real es ta te by non r e s id ent p h y s i c al persons of fo r e ign n a t i o n a l i t y, if f i n a n c ed w i th f u n ds impo r ted f rom ab road, a re f r e e ly pe rm i t ted by a gene ral a u t h o r i z a t i o n, as f o l l ow s: (1) one p lot not exceed ing 5,000 square me ters for one s i n g l e - f a m i ly d w e l l i ng lor personal u se, (2) the land needed for the c o n s t r u c t i on of an a p a r tm e nt b u i l d i n g, and (3) up to three ap a r tm en ts in a s i n g le a p a r tm e nt b u i l d i n g. There a re separate r e g u l a t i o ns g o v e r n i ng the pu rcha se of b u s i n e ss premises (see Roy al Decree No. 6 2 3 / 8 1 ). SPAIN ch ange in ow n e r s h i p. C e r t a in i n v e s tm e n ts in real estate may a lso be f i n a n c ed f rom E x t e r n al Accoun ts in I n t e r n al Pesetas. I r re spec t ive of the method of f i n a n c i n g, r u r al p rope r t ies pu r ch a s ed in excess of 4 hec ta res of i r r iga ted l a nd or 20 hec ta res of u n i r r i g a t ed l a nd r equ i re a u t h o r i z a- t i on f rom t he C o u n c il of M i n i s t e r s. W h en Sp an i sh real e s ta te a c q u i r ed u n d er the 1974 Foreign I n v e s tm e nt Act is sold to a r e s i d e n t, the f u ll sales proceeds a re t r a n s f e r a b le if t he i n i t i al pu r ch a se w as f i n a n c ed w i th c o n v e r t i b le fo re ign cu r rency or w i th pesetas from an Ex te rnal A c c o u nt in C o n v e r t i b le Pesetas. If the i n i t i al pu rchase w as f i n a n c ed w i th pesetas f rom an E x t e r n al A c count in I n t e r n al Pesetas, no pa rt of the sa le proceeds is t r a n s f e r a b l e. R e n ts on n o n r e s i d e n t - ow n ed real estate a re t r an s f e r- a b l e, p rov id ed t h at the pu rcha se p r ice has been pa id in f u l l. (d) Bank credit. S p a n i sh f i rms w i th foreign p a r t i c i- pa t ion in excess of 25 pe rcent are au tho r ized to a v a il t h em s e l v es of local b a nk c r ed it up to f i ve t im es t h e ir c ap i t al stock; domestic b ank credit beyond th is l im it r e q u i r es p r ior a u t h o r i z a t i on f rom the Gene ral D irec tora te of F i n a n c i al Po l icy in the M i n i s t ry of Commerce and E n e r g y, u n l e ss t he excess w o u ld o n ly i n v o l ve a r a t io be tween fo re ign and local c red it e q u al to or grea ter than the e x i s t i ng r a t io of fo r e ign to local p a r t i c i p a t i on in the c om p a n y 's c a p i t a l. (e) Foreign currency deposits. N o n b a nk res iden ts are not a l l ow ed to ho ld fo r e ign cu r r en cy deposits w i th r e s id ent b a n k s, or fo r e ign cu r r en cy ( a nd peseta) deposits w i th n o n r e s i d e nt b a n ks w i t h o ut p r ior a u t h o r i z a t i o n. (/) Other credits. The g r a n t i ng of loans by nonresi- d e n ts to r e s i d e n ts r e q u i r es a u t h o r i z a t i on by the B ank of S p a i n. For loans w i th an average te rm to m a t u r i ty of one year or mo re, app rov al is gran ted a u t om a t i c a l ly if the a p p l i c a t i on is not qu e s t ion ed or rejected w i t h in 15 w o r k i ng d a ys by the B a nk of S p a i n. S u p p l i e r s' cred i ts ex t end ed to re s iden ts by non r e s id en ts r equ i re au tho r iza- t ion by the M i n i s t ry of Economy and Commerce. C e r t i f i c a t es of depos it issued by b a n ks can on ly be pu rcha sed by n o n r e s i d e n ts sub ject to au tho r i z a t ion; long- term bonds of b a n ks (5 to 10 yea r s) can be purchased f r e e ly. 2. Outward Transfers (a) Direct investments. D i rect i n v e s tm e n ts abroad by re s iden ts are p e rm i t t ed f r e e ly p rov ided one of the f o l l ow i ng cond i t ions is me t: ( 1) the share of the Span i sh i n v e s tm e nt is at least 20 pe rcent of the cap i tal of the fo re ign company; (2) the Span ish inves tor par t ic ipa tes in the m a n a g em e nt of the fo r e ign company or o the rw ise exe rc ises an im p o r t a nt i n f l u e n ce over i t; or (3) the fo r e ign company uses e x c l u s i v e ly or p r e d om i n a n t ly techno logy prov ided by the Span i sh inve s to r. Direct i n v e s tm e nt projects abroad m u st be dec lared to the D i rec to ra te -Gene ral of Ex t e rn al T ransac t ions for v e r i f i- ca t ion of a u t h e n t i c i ty and for s t a t i s t i c al con t ro l. If no a dm i n i s t r a t i ve n o t i f i c a t i on is rece ived rega rd ing the project w i t h in 30 days of the d e c l a r a t i o n, the par t ies 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN concerned may proceed w i th the inve s tmen t. The inves t- ment must be carried ou t, in p r inc ip le, w i t h in a period of six mon ths. Direct inves tmen ts in foreign companies lead ing to the purchase and ho ld ing of securities and the purchase of real estate are not l ibe ra l ized. (b) Portfolio investments. Banks, sav ings in s t i tu t ion s, and insurance companies may purchase fore ign secur i- ties in foreign stock markets up to 10 percent of the increase in their own resources in any one year. In the case of existing establishments, the increased resources are calculated from the date on wh ich Royal Decree No. 2236/79 of September 14, 1979 (prov id ing for the liberalization of Spanish investments abroad) became effec t ive; for new es tab l ishmen ts, the c a l cu l a t ion is made from the date on wh ich the m i n im um legal requirements for subscribed and pa id-up capital are effec t ive. Under the same decree, Spanish residents are free to purchase fixed-income securities denom ina ted in foreign exchange and issued by Spanish private and pub l ic in s t i tu t ions and by in te rna t ional organ iza t ions in wh ich Spain is a member. Acqu is i t ion and disposal of such securities mu st be reported to the Directorate- General of External Transactions. Fo l low ing a tempo- rary suspension in February 1982, suspens ion of the decree was extended for a 12-month period in February 1983; prior authorization from the M in i s t ry of Economy and Commerce thus con t inues to be required to t ran s fer funds abroad for inves tmen ts in foreign bonds and o ther f inanc ial ins t rumen ts. A ll other Spanish inve s tmen ts abroad requ i re pr ior au tho r iza t ion, wh ich is hand led by the Directorate- General of External Transactions if the inv e s tm ent does not exceed Ptas 100 m i l l ion and by the M i n i s t ry of Economy and Commerce in the case of h igh er amoun t s. (c) Loans. Requests by nonbank residents to grant loans to nonresidents and for supp l iers' credits from Spanish residents to nonres iden ts requ i re au tho r i z a t ion by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Beg inn ing in June 1982, requests for the early repayment of loans denominated in foreign currency are sub ject to a freeze imposed by the Bank of Spain. There has been no exper ience w i th the i s su ing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by non res iden ts, nor w i th short-term cred i ts granted by Spanish banks to nonresidents other than certain export credits granted d i rec t ly to fore ign importers. Credits to nonresidents for t ransac t ions w i th Spa in m a y, however, be authorized by the M in i s t ry of Economy and Commerce. Furthermore, au thor ized banks may extend var ious types of credit to non res iden ts, provided that th is credit is financed w i th funds deposited in Spain in nonresident convertible cu r rency accoun ts; some forms of such credit do not requ i re p r ior approval by the M i n i s t ry of Economy and Commerce. Commerc ial banks are proh ib i ted from establishing short-term swap pos i t ions w i th pesetas for more than two days. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in any form in Spa in. Purchases of go ld, s i lve r, and p l a t i n um ingots are sub ject to a l u x u ry tax of 30 percen t, but gold purchased for indus t r ial use is exempt from the tax. Imports of gold are sub ject to quo tas issued by the M in i s t ry of Economy and Commerce. Such quotas are granted to indus tr ial users for purposes of manu fac tu r ing jewelry and other a r t ic le s. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments January 1. Impo rt du t ies on a number of chemical products were reduced from a range of 13-35 percent to a range of 0 —1 percen t. March 16. Tar iff quo tas at reduced rates were in- troduced for impor ts of au tomob i les from the EC coun t r ie s. Capital February 10. The suspension of a 1979 decree l ib e r a l i z ing ou tward portfolio inves tmen ts was extended for a period of 12 mon th s; prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in i s t ry of Economy and Commerce would thus con- t i n ue to be requ ired to t rans fer funds abroad for invest- men ts in fo re ign bonds and other f inanc ial in s t rumen t s. March 25. The m i n im um capital requirement for branches of fo re ign banks was increased from Ptas 750 m i l l i on to Ptas 2 b i l l i o n. 440 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sri Lanka is the Sri Lanka Rupee, for wh ich the U .S. dollar is the in terven t ion currency. The exchange rate of the Sri Lanka rupee is adjusted periodically by the Central Bank largely on the basis of domestic price developments relative to those of Sri Lanka's six major trading partners (France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ind i a, Japan, the Un i ted K ing- dom, and the Un i ted States). The Central Bank deter- mines daily the spot buy ing and selling rates of the U .S. dollar against the Sri Lanka rupee for its transac t ions with the commercial banks; it purchases and se l ls the U .S. dollar on a spot basis at the m idd le rate so established. On December 29, 1983 the b u y i ng and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were SL Rs 24.99 and SL Rs 25.01, respectively, per US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. The Central Bank provides forward cover on ly to commercial banks for their sales in U .S. dollars on ly. At the end of 1983, the Central Bank provided fo rwa rd cover up to six months; one-month forward dollars were purchased at the spot middle rate, and s ix -mon th forward dollars were at a discount of SL Rs 0.50 against the spot middle rate for US$100. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Department of Exchange Control of the Central Bank as agent of the Government. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must normally be made th rough commercial banks authorized to carry out operations in fore ign currencies in accordance w i th the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made th rough post off ices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. The Foreign Investment Advisory Committee handles applications re la t ing to foreign inve s tment in areas other than those coming w i th in the pu rv iew of the Greater Colombo Economic Commission (GCEC), wh i ch ad- ministers the Inves tment Promotion Zone. Prescription of Currency Payments to, and receipts f rom, member coun t r ies of the Asian Clearing Un ion ( i . e ., Bang lade sh, B u rm a, Ind ia, the Islamic Repub l ic of I ran, Nepa l, and Pak i s tan) in respect of current transactions (other than those relating to petroleum, na tu ral gas, and th e ir produc ts) must be effected in As ian Monetary U n i ts or in the currency of a member of the As ian Clearing U n i o n. For settlements w i th all other coun t r ies, paymen ts for imports may be made in any fore ign currency or in Sri Lanka rupees. Other paymen ts may be made e i ther in the currency of the country to wh ich the payment is due or by crediting Sri Lanka rupees to an Ex te rnal Rupee Accoun t. Proceeds from exports must be received in designated foreign currencies.1 Other receipts may be accepted in Sri Lanka rupees from an External Rupee Account or in any designated foreign currency (see footnote 1). Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in any commercial bank in Sri Lanka by (a) nonnationals resident outside Sri Lanka; (b) f irms and companies registered ou ts ide Sri Lanka; (c) Sri Lanka nationals resident outside Sri Lanka, who are c lass if ied for th is purpose in to two categories (those whose cu r rent or sav ings accounts are redesignated as nonres ident accounts fo l low ing the ir depar ture, and those whose accounts are opened after the ir depa r tu re ); (d) em ig ran ts; and (e) foreign banks. The open ing of these accounts for categories (a) and ( b ), the c red i t ing of the in i t i al and subsequent deposits arising from inwa rd rem i t tances, and deb i ts for local d isbu rsemen ts may be effected w i thout the prior ap- proval of the Depar tment of Exchange Control; however, local cred i ts to these accoun ts and debits for remittances abroad requ i re the prior approval of the Department. The opening and redesignating of accounts in category (c ), cred i ts a r is ing from inwa rd remittances, and local credits and deb i ts to such accounts may be effected w i t h o ut the prior approval of the Department of Ex- change Control; deb i ts of these accoun ts for remittances abroad w i t h o ut exchange control approval are not per- m i t ted. Accoun ts in category (d) are blocked nonresident accoun ts. Local deb i ts to such accounts may be effected w i t h o ut the prior approval of the Department of Ex- change Control; however, local credits to them and debits for ou twa rd rem i t tances requ ire the prior approval of the Depa r tmen t. Und er category (e) foreign banks may be pe rm i t ted to open and operate nonres ident accoun ts w i t h o ut the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Con tro l. Non res ident blocked accoun ts are used for holding funds that have not been accepted for transfer abroad, u s u a l ly f u n ds owned by non res iden ts, repatriates, and em igran ts. Authorized dealers are permitted to debit these accounts for local d isbursemen ts and credit them on account of pens ions, income tax re fund s, and prof i ts and d iv id ends w i t h o ut prior approval. Funds in blocked accounts may be inves ted in any local enterprise w i thout the prior approval of the Con tro l ler of Exchange. Subject to exchange control app rova l, proceeds from the l iqu ida- tion of such inve s tmen ts can be credited to blocked ac- coun t s. Rem i t tances up to a m a x im um of SL Rs 200,000 are allowed from these accoun ts, w i thout the prior approval of the exchange control au tho r i t ies. Rem i t tance ' A u s t r a l i an d o l l a r s, B e l g i an f r an c s, C an ad i an d o l l a r s, Dan i sh k r o n e r, d eu t s che m a r k, F rench f r a n c s, Japanese y e n, N e th e r l ands g u i l d e r s, N o rw e g i an k ron e r, pounds s t e r l i n g, Swed ish k rono r, Swiss f r a n c s, a nd U . S. d o l l a r s. 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA of interest accrued to blocked accounts is f u l ly transfer- able after deduction of taxes. Also retained in blocked accounts is a proportion of local currency earnings, derived from the exhibition of foreign-owned f i lm s, if the takings exceed the amount specified in the import license; such retained funds may be used by the owner for certain specified purposes, inc lud ing the mak ing of films in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka nationals resident abroad are allowed to maintain nonresident foreign currency accounts in Sri Lanka in convertible currenc ies .2 Such accounts can also be opened by Sri Lankans w i th in 90 days of their arrival in Sri Lanka with foreign exchange brought in by them or received from abroad. Credits to the accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances from abroad and money brought into the country by ind iv idua ls at the time of arrival; in addition, interest payments in these four convertible currencies may be credited to the accounts. These accounts may be free ly debited w i thout exchange control approval for paymen ts abroad or w i th in Sri Lanka converted to Sri Lanka rupees, wh i le the account holder is outside Sri Lanka, and for a period of ten years from the date of arrival of the account holder for taking up permanent residence in Sri Lanka. These accounts are exempt from income and wealth taxes during the period in wh ich the account holder is res ident abroad and for a further period of three years after resuming residence in Sri Lanka. Commercial banks operating in Sri Lanka may estab- lish a Foreign Currency Bank ing U n i t. These u n i ts may accept time and demand deposits in any designated foreign currency from nonresidents and from resident enterprises in the Investment Promotion Zone, and they may extend loans and advances in any designated foreign currency to any nonresident and to any resident enter- prise having GCEC status. In add i t ion, the Foreign Currency Banking Units are allowed to accept time and demand deposits from and grant loans and advances to any other resident approved by the Central Bank for such purposes as may be approved by the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain specified imports, no prior licensing is required. Imports that are subject to prior l icens ing include those subject to control for security reasons, precious metals, alcohol, apparatus and equ ipment used in photographic and cinematographic laboratories, photocopying and thermocopying apparatus, screens for projectors, color photocopying appara tus, articles of cement (whether reinforced or no t ), concrete cement blocks, encasements of indus tr ial waste s lugs, slag dress, ash and residues, other slag and ash inc lud ing kelp, and certain consumer goods, in addition to several major food items (rice, f lour, and wheat gra ins). Imports of specified items3 are restricted to govern- ment or state corporations; these are referred to as 2In deutsche ma rk, pounds s ter l ing, Swiss f rancs, and U . S. do l la r s. 3These include dates, ch i l ies, on ions, potatoes, cer ta in pe t ro leum products, f i lms, consumer tex t i les, caus t ic soda, tea ches ts, j u t e, hessian, mamoties, and ma tches. 442 "reserved i tems ." Prior approval procedures apply to certain imports of capital goods: certain machinery imports relating to foreign investment require the ap- proval of the Foreign Inves tment Advisory Committee, and certain machinery imports relating to local invest- ment require the prior approval of the Local Investment Advisory Committee; no prior approval is required if any single cons ignment does not exceed SL Rs 700,000. Holders of balances in Convertible Rupee Accounts, wh ich were abolished for new credits as of No- vember 16, 1977, may use these funds to pay for certain imports, sub ject to licensing by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Except for specified transactions, imports can be effected on ly against sight letters of credit. An autho- rized dealer may approve an application to remit foreign exchange or to credit a nonresident account against an application for the opening of a letter of credit, and proof of a va l id import license, when applicable. These requirements do not apply where the value of a consign- ment is less than SL Rs 5,000 and is for the direct use of the importer. Payments for Invisibles Certain paymen ts for inv is ib les require exchange control permission. For travel abroad, residents of Sri Lanka are allowed a basic foreign exchange allowance of Ind ian rupees 2,000 an adu lt and Indian rupees 1,000 a ch i ld under 12 years, once every two years, for travel to the "Indian group of countries" (defined as Bangladesh, Bu rm a, Ind i a, Ma ld ives, Nepa l, and Pakistan), the U . S. do l lar or pound sterling equivalents of these amoun ts may be allowed. In add i t ion, basic allowances of £ stg. 500 for an adu lt and £ stg. 250 for a child under 12 years of age are allowed every four years for travel to other coun tr ies. Additional foreign exchange is provided to pay for air fares. The prior approval by the Central Bank is not required for these sales of exchange, as the func t ion has been delegated to the banks and travel agents authorized by the Central Bank. Allowances for o f f ic ial travel requ ire a certificate from the head of the relevant ins t i tu t ion. Banks and travel agents authorized by the Central Bank can also provide foreign exchange for business travel when the request is accompanied by a letter from the cha i rman, director, partner, or sole proprietor of the company recommending the particular tr ip abroad. In those cases, exchange is allowed at the rate of US$45 a day, up to a max imum of 30 days, for the Indian group of coun tr ies and US$90 a day, also up to a m ax imum of 30 days, for other destinations. These l im i ts apply to cha i rmen, directors, partners, and sole proprietors of companies; other business executives may ob ta in up to US$30 a day for the Indian group of countries and up to US$65 a day, up to a max imum of 30 days, for other countries. Foreign exchange may be released for medical treat- ment abroad if any specialist, whether in government service or in private practice, certifies that equally effec t ive treatment is not available in Sri Lanka. In ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution addition, a monthly l iv ing allowance may be granted up to the equivalent of £ stg. 130 for an adu lt and £ stg. 65 for a child under 12 years, for the Ind ian group of countries; the corresponding amounts for other countries are £ stg. 500 and £ stg. 250, respectively. Exchange for emergency travel for persons who have already used the basic allowance may be released w i thout prior approval in amounts up to Indian rupees 750 for the Ind ian group of countries and £ stg. 200 for other countries. Autho- rized dealers are also allowed to sell foreign exchange for advertising charges and for subscriptions and pay- ments to international tourist organizations. Payments for other types of travel allowance require prior approval by the Central Bank. The provision of foreign exchange is allowed for education abroad at a recognized un ivers i ty or technical institute to cover passage fare, l iv ing expenses, tu i t ion fees, textbooks, etc. For living expenses annual foreign exchange limits are established for (a) undergraduate or professional and technical education, and for (b) post- graduate education, according to four groups of coun- tries. For the Indian group of countries, foreign ex- change is made available up to Indian rupees 7,200 and Indian rupees 9,600, respectively, for undergraduate and postgraduate studies; for Europe ( inc lud ing the United Kingdom and the U .S .S .R .) up to £ stg. 2,400 and b stg. 3,000, respectively; for Aus tra l ia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States, up to US$6,000 and US$7,200, respectively; and for all other coun tr ies, up to US$3,600 and US$4,800, respectively. A clothing allowance of US$150 (or its equ iva lent in other foreign currency) is allowed once in four years in addition to the above-mentioned amounts. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit for family maintenance a max imum of two thirds of their gross monthly income. Foreign technical personnel employed by approved enterprises may remit up to two thirds of their monthly earnings if their contract of employment does not exceed three years, and up to one third when the employment contract exceeds three years. Foreign technical personnel employed in the free trade zone may remit up to 90 percent of the ir mon th ly earnings. Nationals of Sri Lanka are not granted foreign exchange for fam i ly remittances. Commissions up to 5 percent of the c . i . f. value are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad. No remittances for insurance on exports are permitted; these must be covered with the Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka. Holders of funds in Convertible Rupee Accounts w i th credit balances outstanding as of November 15, 1977 may use these funds for travel expenditures and other current invisibles w i thout the prior approval by the Controller of Exchange. Banks are authorized, without prior exchange control approval, to provide foreign exchange for subscriptions to professional ins t i tu t ions, fees in respect of foreign examinations held in Sri Lanka, and payments for the import of material for correspondence courses. SRI LANKA Profit remittances and remittances of dividends to nonresident shareholders of companies whose financial assets are in rupees may be effected through commercial banks w i thout prior exchange control approval if they relate to the year of application, do not include undis- tributed profits from previous years, and do not include transfers from reserves and profits resulting from the sale of fixed assets. For interim profits, the following documents should be furnished: (1) a certificate from the company's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted represents profits for the period to which it relates; (2) a preliminary computation of the remittable profits; (3) a tax clearance (only in the case of nonresident partners) in respect of the profits to be remitted; (4) a certificate confirming that the beneficiary is resident abroad; and (5) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amount due to each. For final profits, submission of the fo l low ing documents is required: (a) an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; (b) a certificate from the auditors confirming that the remittance represents the final installment of the profits, declared in respect of the year under reference; and (c) a computation of the remittable profits, and also the documents listed in (3), (4), and (5) required for the remittance of interim profits. Remittances of interim dividends can be made pro- vided that the following documents are submitted: (1) a certificate from the company's auditors confirming that the amount to be remitted represents only dividends for the period to which it relates; (2) a certification that the remittance constitutes an interim dividend based on the unaud i ted accounts for the period; (3) a certificate conf irm ing that the beneficiary is a resident outside Sri Lanka; and (4) a schedule indicating the names of the beneficiaries and the net amounts due to them. The remittance of a f inal dividend requires the submission of (a) an audited copy of the company's profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the year to which the remittance relates; (b) a certificate from the auditors con f i rm ing that the remittance represents dividends only for the period to which it relates; and (c) the documents listed in (3) and (4) required for the remittance of interim d iv idends. Resident nonnationals may maintain foreign currency accounts w i th domestic commercial banks in any of ten designated currencies4 without prior exchange control approval. These accounts must be operated by the domestic u n it of the bank and not by its Foreign Currency Bank ing Un i t. The accounts may be current, sav ings, or deposit accounts, but withdrawal of funds by checks is not permitted. Credits to these accounts are limited to inward remittances and to amounts in Sri Lanka rupees authorized by the Controller of Exchange 4Deu tsche ma rk, French francs, Hong Kong do l lars, Japanese yen, N e th e r l ands gu i lde r s, pounds s te r l ing, Singapore dollars, Swedish k rone r, Sw iss f rancs, and U .S. do l lars. 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA for remittance abroad; debits are l im i ted to ou tward remittances and to payments in fore ign currency con- verted into Sri Lanka rupees. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the t ime of en t ry. Unspent rupee balances from foreign exchange sold by nonres i- dent travelers may be reconverted into foreign cu r rency, provided that the Customs Declaration Card indicates that at least the equ iva lent of such balances has been brought into Sri Lanka. The amount of fore ign currency notes wh ich diplomats, other foreign m iss ions, and th e ir non-Sri Lanka staff traveling abroad can take w i th them is limited to 20 percent of the ir travel expenses. Residents may take out foreign currency notes and coin not exceeding £ stg. 20 a person (£ stg. 10 for ch i ld ren under 12 years) of the exchange authorized for t rave l. All persons leaving Sri Lanka may take out domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries w i th wh ich Sri Lanka m a in t a ins bilateral payments agreements are sub ject to the approval of the Director of Commerce. A number of spec if ied items require prior l icens ing by the Controller of Imports and Exports. The State Gem Corporation has control of exports of gems and j ew e l ry. Exports of gems by the private sector require prior approval, and the Corpora- tion handles exports in the name of miners who w i sh to export gems. Re-exports of nonmone tary gold, s i lve r, diamonds, and p la t inum are allowed on ly in special circumstances. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports m u st be collected, usua l ly w i t h in six mon ths of the date of shipment, except in the case of tea exports to London auctions when the prescribed period is four mon ths. Special arrangements apply to exports made under trade and payments agreements and to exports made to a member country of the As ian Clearing U n i o n. Proceeds from Invisibles Unless otherwise specified, foreign exchange pro- ceeds from inv is ib les must be surrendered. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his ho ld ing s, in c lud ing currency notes and co in. The amount of fore ign f u n ds that may be carried in to Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Ind ian and Pakistani currency is not pe rm i t ted. A person entering Sri Lanka may br ing in domestic currency notes not exceeding SL Rs 250. Other currency notes and coin may be brought in w i thout res tr ic t ion. Inw a rd rem i t- tance of foreign exchange proceeds from inv i s ib les of US$50,000 a transaction and above requ ires prior ap- proval by the Controller of Exchange. Capital Inves tmen ts of foreign cap i tal are pe rm i t ted in projects which are specifically approved by the Government or, where the capital is drawn from a blocked account in Sri Lanka, in any local enterprise w i thout the prior approval 444 of the Con tro l ler of Exchange. Proceeds from the sale or l iqu id a t ion of inve s tmen ts in approved projects other than inve s tmen ts made from blocked accounts may be repa tr ia ted, along w i th cap i tal apprec ia t ion. Proceeds from the sale or l i q u i d a t i on of inves tmen ts not approved by the Gove rnment may not be transferred abroad but may be reinvested w i th the approval of the Controller of Exchange; the current income thereon may be remitted abroad. New foreign inve s tmen ts in Sri Lanka that are ap- proved by the Foreign I n v e s tm e nt Adv i so ry Committee of the M in i s t ry of F inance and P l a n n i ng or the Greater Colombo Econom ic Comm i s s ion are also granted special f a c i l i t i es for r em i t t an c es and taxa t ion. Inves tmen ts abroad by res iden ts are not no rm a l ly pe rm i t ted. Res iden t -owned secu r i t ies on wh i ch the principal, in te res t, or d iv id ends are payab le (e i ther con t rac tua l ly or at the op t ion of the ho lde r) in any fore ign currency must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or t rans fer of such secur i t ies is allowed on ly w i th the perm iss ion of the Con tro l ler of Exchange. Au tho r ized dealers may g rant a l loca t ions to emigrants upon p resen ta t ion of appropr ia te documen ta t ion. At the t ime of depar ture, em ig r an ts can ob ta in passage to the coun t ry of m ig r a t ion by no rmal direct route and 20 per- cent of passage fare to cover excess baggage. Exchange e q u i v a l e nt to £ stg. 500 an adu lt and £ stg. 250 a child under 12 years of age can also be purchased at the time of depa r tu re. Personal effec ts up to SL Rs 15,000 and j ew e l ry up to SL Rs 30,000 for each fema le emigrant and SL Rs 10,000 for each ma le em ig rant can be exported. The Depa r tment of Exchange Control can approve the t ran s fer of pens ions in f u l l, or up to £ stg. 100 a month, i n c l u d i ng pension and other income, sub ject to subm is- sion of an income- tax clearance cer t if ica te. Repa t r ia tes l e av ing Sri Lanka for residence in the coun t ry of t h e ir pe rmanent dom ic i le are perm i t ted to t ran s fer assets rep resen t ing th e ir re t i rement funds and a reasonable am o u nt of sav ings as determined by the Gove rnment from t ime to t im e. Persons who have been in bus iness in Sri Lanka are allowed to transfer the cap i tal they o r i g i n a l ly b rought in to the coun try plus a reasonable amount of s a v i n g s, sub ject to certain l im i ts. Spec ial p r o v i s i o n s, governed by an agreement between Sri Lanka and I n d i a, app ly to I n d i an f am i l i es re turn ing to Ind ia. Gold Impor ts and expor ts of gold in any form require l icenses issued by the Con t ro l l er of Impor ts and Exports w i th the approval of the Cen tral B a n k. Commercial impo r ts of j ew e l ry and of o ther a r t ic les con t a in ing gold are severely re s t r ic ted. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement August 9. A sys tem was adopted under wh ich the exchange rate wou ld be ad jus ted per iod ica l ly on the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution basis of a predetermined formula reflecting the domestic price performance of Sri Lanka relative to its six major trading partners (France, India, Japan, the United King- dom, the United States, and the Federal Republic of Germany). Nonresident Accounts January 3. All outward remittances from Airline External Accounts in respect of passenger and freight collections were made subject to prior approval by the Controller of Exchange. Payments for Invisibles February 28. Limits on foreign exchange sales for living expenses of Sri Lankans studying abroad were increased as follows: (a) for studies in Bangladesh, Burma, India, Maldives, Nepal, and Pakistan, from the equivalent of Indian rupees 3,000 to Indian rupees 7,200 for undergraduate and technical education, and from Indian rupees 3,600 to Indian rupees 9,600 for post- graduate education; (b) the existing limits were raised from the equivalent of £ stg. 1,200 for undergraduates and £ stg. 1,500 for postgraduates to £ stg. 2,400 and £ stg. 3,000, respectively, for countries in Europe (including the United Kingdom and U .S .S .R . ); (c) for Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and the United States, the limits were set at US$6,000 for under- graduates and US$7,200 for postgraduates; and (d) for all other unspecified countries, the limits were set at US$3,600 for undergraduates and US$4,800 for postgraduates. April 28. Foreign exchange allowance for residents of Indian nationality for the purpose of brief visits to India SRI LANKA prior to leaving Sri Lanka permanently were increased for each visit from the equivalent of SL Rs 50 to SL Rs 100 for adults, and from SL Rs 25 to SL Rs 50 for children under 12 years of age. July 21. A regulation was introduced limiting to 20 percent of their travel expenses the amount of foreign currency notes which diplomats, other foreign missions, and their non-Sri Lanka staff traveling abroad could take with them. Proceeds from Exports and from Invisibles August 5. Encashment of traveler's checks exceeding SL Rs 100,000 in value on any one day by authorized dealers in favor of any person was made subject to approval by the Controller of Exchange. (The limitation did not apply to the acceptance of traveler's checks as payment for goods supplied or services rendered.) October 25. Inward remittances of foreign exchange amounting to US$50,000 or more in respect of the following payments ceased to require prior approval by the Controller of Exchange: (a) advance or normal payments for exports; (b) payments from overseas agents to meet disbursements of vessels; (c) payments from overseas agents to meet bunkering cost of ships and airlines; (d) freight collections in respect of Sri Lanka vessels received from abroad; (e) remittances received by general sales agents and local branch offices of foreign airlines operating in Sri Lanka; and (f) funds received by UN agencies, namely UNDP, UNICEF, FAO, WHO, and the Colombo Plan Bureau. In addition, foreign exchange dealers could henceforth credit or encash such remittances upon presentation of the corre- sponding documentation. 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position on December 31, 1983} Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sudan is the Sudanese Pound, wh ich is pegged to the U .S. dollar. The o f f ic ial exchange rate for the Sudanese pound is LSd 1 = US$0.7692 (130 Sudanese piasters — US$1). There are two exchange markets: the o f f ic ial market, wh i ch hand les government transactions effected through the Bank of Sudan, and a free market operated by authorized banks and au thor ized foreign exchange dealers, in wh ich the exchange rate is allowed to f luc tua te and in wh ich all pr iva te sector transactions other than the few specified below are transacted. The allocation of specified transac t ions between the two markets is as follows: (1) all transac t ions (v i s ib le and inv is ib le) by government and specified pub l ic entities are effected at the o f f ic ial rate of exchange through the Bank of Sudan; (2) all transac t ions (v is ib le and invisible) by private sector and other pub l ic en t i t ies must be channeled through the free market and effected through authorized bank s, except for the f o l l ow i n g, (a) On inv is ib le receipts, au thor ized banks are directed to purchase the fo l low ing items at the o f f ic ial rate in favor of Bank of Sudan: hotel b i l ls for those who are not permitted to pay hotel b i l ls in local currency; a i r l ine tickets paid in foreign currencies; in f lows of equ i ty or loan capital; and transfers of fore ign company branches in Sudan, foreign contractors, and subcon trac tors, con- su l tant companies, d ip loma t ic m iss ions, in te rna t ional and regional organ iza t ions, religious and cha r i ty organ- iza t ions, and all s im i lar organ iza t ions, (b) On i n v i s i b le paymen ts, repatriation of p r inc ipal on fore ign loans and foreign shares are effected at the off ic ial exchange rate, provided that they are approved by the M in i s t er of Finance and Na t ional Economy and registered w i th the Bank of Sudan, (c) On export proceeds, 75 percent of export proceeds is purchased by au thor ized banks in favor of the Bank of Sudan at the o f f ic ial rate. Transac- tions w i th Egyp t, w i th wh ich Sudan m a i n t a i ns a b i la te ral payments agreement, are excluded from the above- mentioned regu la t ions, w i th the exception of those not covered under the agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the B a nk of Sudan, w i th the assistance of the au thor ized b ank s. Foreign exchange dealers are au thor ized on ly to buy and sell foreign currencies in the free ma rke t. The issuance of registration forms and the l icens ing of imports and exports (except those of gold) are the re spon s ib i l i ty of the Ministry of Cooperation, Commerce, and Supp ly, but all registration forms and licenses pe r ta in ing to transactions in the off ic ial market must be va l ida ted by the Bank of Sudan. Off ic ial import paymen ts and other foreign paymen ts are approved w i t h in the f ramewo rk of 446 an a n n u al fo re ign exchange budget d rawn up by the M in i s t ry of Finance and Economic P lann ing, in coordi- n a t ion w i th the Bank of Sudan and the M in is t ry of Cooperation, S u p p l y, and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts to a ll countries —except Egyp t, w i th wh ich, as men t ioned above, Sudan m a in t a ins a b i la te ral pay- men ts agreement —and all monetary areas (the "convert- ib le area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any non res ident account or in any fore ign currency, wh i le receipts from the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds from any nonresident account or in any conve r t ib le currency. Foreign Currency Accounts There are two types of fore ign currency accounts: (a) fore ign exchange accoun ts he ld by residents, on w h i ch there are no res t r ic t ions, residents being free to ho ld fo re ign currency in cash, except that they are not a l lowed to se t t le the ir domestic t ransac t ions in foreign cu r rency; and (b) spec ial accoun ts, app l icab le to the o rgan iza t ions and d ip loma t ic en t i t ies specified in the last category of i n v i s i b le receipts under Exchange Ar- rangemen t s, above. A ll such bodies and the ir staff are requ i red to keep th e ir fo re ign currency in special accoun ts w h i ch are to be m a in t a in ed on ly from inward t rans fe rs; any convers ion from such accounts into Sudan- ese pound s, in order to settle domestic transactions, should be effected at the o f f ic ial rate and checks drawn on the accoun ts are pe rm i t ted on ly to pay for airline t i c k e t s, purchases at du ty - f ree shops, and hotel b i l ls. D r aw ing of cash from these accoun ts is allowed only for t ravel exp end i tu r e s, but ou twa rd transfers from them are f ree. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts from Israel and Sou th A f r i ca are prohibited. Cer ta in impo r ts are p roh ib i ted for protective reasons and others are not be ing l icensed. Perm i t ted imports are f in an c ed from four sources accord ing to category: ( 1) from the Bank of Sudan for e s sen t ial imports; (2) f rom comme rc ial bank resources on ly for certain com- mod i t ies; (3) from e i ther commercial b ank or private resources; and (4) from p r iva te resources for all other commod i t ie s. Impo rt l icenses are issued according to these categories. Pe t ro leum produc ts are imported only by a state agency. For goods that r equ i re i n d i v i d u al l i c en s ing, import l icenses m u st be ob ta ined f rom the M in i s t ry of Coopera- t i o n, Commerce, and S u p p l y, but for those goods that are imported t h r o u gh the o f f i c i al market the licenses mu st be va l ida ted by the General Adm in i s t ra t ion for Foreign Exchange (GAFE ). For impor ts that are f in an c ed from sources o ther than the Bank of Sudan, the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution licenses must be validated by commercial bank s. Import insurance normally must be taken out w i th local compa- nies. Most private sector imports are subject to an advance deposit of 2 percent of the c. & f. v a lu e, payab le before va l ida t ion, if the import is f inanced by commer- cial banks. Goods that otherwise wou ld be subject to the advance deposit requirement are exempt when f inanced w i th supp l iers' credit of at least two years' m a t u r i t y, provided that the amount of the transaction is at least LSd 500,000. If a letter of credit is opened, the authorized bank u su a l ly requires a cash marg in of 40 percent. In practice, for many import items for w h i ch the banks are not allowed to provide foreign exchange f in an c ing, a margin deposit of 100 percent is requ i red. A stamp du ty of LSd 5 is levied on the app l ica t ion form for each t rans fer in respect of pr iva te sector impor ts. Most imports are subject to an import surcharge of 10 percent and a defense tax of 10 percent ad valorem. There are arrears on paymen ts for impor ts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all inv is ib les f inanced from free market sources do not require approval from the GAFE. Repa tr i- ation of loan principal and shares require approval from the GAFE, as these are f inanced from foreign exchange funds purchased by commercial banks at the o f f ic ial rate, on behalf of the Bank of Sudan. A l lowances for tou r ist travel to Egypt are au thor ized by the commercial banks up to a m ax imum of LSd 300 a person a year in c lear ing dollars. In add i t ion, trave lers to Egypt are free to acquire convertible currency from the free ma rke t. Foreign exchange for travel to coun t r ies other than Egypt must be acquired from the free ma rke t. Depar t ing travelers mu st provide evidence that foreign exchange in the ir posses- sion was acquired through a commerc ial bank exchange dealer, a private licensed exchange dealer, d rawn from a foreign exchange or special accoun t, or has been reported on a declaration form prior to en t ry in to Sudan. The exportation of Sudanese currency over LSd 20 is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. With the exception of co t ton, gum arabic, and l ives tock, all exporters must subm it for all exports an export contract accompanied by an export license and ob ta in approval from an authorized commerc ial b a n k. A ll commodities are subject to m i n im um export prices. The proceeds of exports mu st be repatriated to the b a n k i ng system w i t h in four mon ths from the date of sh ipmen t. The commercial banks are allowed to purchase 25 per- cent of export proceeds at the free market rate to meet the needs of the private sector, in accordance w i th the priority list established by the Bank of Sudan; the balance of 75 percent of export proceeds mu st be surrendered to the Bank of Sudan at the o f f ic ial exchange rate. When the terms of payment are cash aga inst documents or s ight letter of c red i t, the proceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the sh ipp ing documen ts; SUDAN o therw ise a surrender date is u s u a l ly specified. Some major export commod i t ies are exported solely by pub l ic sector en t i t ie s. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese na t iona ls wo rk ing abroad can open foreign exchange accoun ts. Res iden ts are allowed to keep foreign exchange from sources other than export pro- ceeds or income from tou r ism; such foreign exchange can be kept in fore ign exchange accounts w i th local or foreign banks. Travelers en ter ing Sudan may br ing in any amount in notes and coin of other currencies, but the impor ta t ion of more than LSd 20 in Sudanese currency is fo rb idden. Declaration of fore ign exchange ho ld ings at the port of en t ry is op t ional but adv isab le for those who want to repatriate these f u n d s. Capital A ll incom ing fo re ign cap i tal (loans or e q u i t y ), whe ther p r iva te or gove rnmen ta l, is converted at the o f f ic ial ma rket rate and receives assurance of repatriation of the o r i g i n al cap i tal at the o f f ic ial rate. Foreign exchange for rem i t tances of p ro f i ts, in teres t, and d iv i- dends are to be acqu ired from the free ma rke t. Gold Res iden ts may pu rchase, ho ld, and sell gold coins in Sudan for n um i sm a t ic purposes. Subject to certain cond i t ions, res iden ts may also purchase, ho ld, and sell in Sudan domes t ica l ly produced gold. W i th these excep- t ion s, res iden ts other than the monetary authorities and au thor ized indu s t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acqu ire gold in any form other th an jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Impor ts and exports of gold in any form other than j ew e l ry requ i re licenses issued by the M i n i s t ry of Cooperation, Commerce, and Supp ly; such licenses are not no rma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on beha lf of the mone tary au tho r i t ies and indu s t r ial users. Some n ew ly m ined gold is exported for processing and then re impo r ted. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement February 27. In a rev is ion of regu la t ions governing access to the free ma rke t, licenses were granted for the four n a t ion a l i z ed banks to deal in fore ign exchange in th is m a rk e t. (Seven more commerc ial banks were l i- censed to deal in the ma rket in March 1983.) March 18. The category of fore ign exchange dealers' l icenses for nonb anks was suspended. September 22. Procedures were in i t ia ted to reau tho- rize nonbanks as fore ign exchange dealers. Foreign Currency Accounts March 6. The f a c i l i ty for convertible currency ac- coun ts in Sudanese pounds was abo l ished. Imports and Import Payments March 6. A regu la t ion was in troduced, requ i r ing all p r iva te sector impor ts to be f inanced from foreign 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN exchange purchased from the free market or from the importer's own resources. August 75. Margin requ iremen ts for the opening of letters of credit were raised from 40 percent to 100 percent for specified import transactions. Exports and Export Proceeds March 6. In a modification of the surrender require- ment for export proceeds, 75 percent of proceeds from all exports was required to be surrendered to the Bank of Sudan, and the balance of 25 percent to be sold to the commercial banks at the free market exchange rate. In addition, all foreign exchange retention schemes were abolished. Proceeds from Invisibles March 6. The fac i l i ty for convertible currency ac- counts in Sudanese pounds was abolished. In addition, a regu la t ion was introduced specifying that invisible re- ceipts from foreign companies, diplomatic missions, in terna t ional organ iza t ions, and hotels should be credited to the Bank of Sudan at the off ic ial exchange rate. 448 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Su r iname is the Su r iname G u i l d e r, wh ich is pegged to the U . S. do l la r, the in terven t ion currency, at Sf 1.78876 - US$1. On December 31, 1983 the off ic ial buy ing and se l l ing rates for the U .S. dollar were Sf 1.77 and Sf 1.80, respec t ive ly, per US$1. Buy ing and se l l ing rates for cer ta in other cu r r en c i e sl are set da i ly by the Central Bank on the basis of the market quotations for the U . S. dollar and the currencies con- cerned in Ams terdam and the cen tral rate for the U . S. dollar in Sur iname, net of any comm iss ions. There is no exchange market in Su r iname. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of fore ign exchange. Suriname fo rma l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Ar t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t, as from June 29, 1978. Administration of Control In pr inc ip le, all fore ign exchange transactions are subject to license, as are t ransac t ions be tween residents and nonresidents in domestic currency and o ther domes- tic assets. The au tho r i ty to grant exchange licenses is vested in the Foreign Exchange Board, w h i ch has delegated much of th is au tho r i ty and issues licenses ma in ly for capital t ransac t ions and certain inv i s ib l e s. An interministerial ad hoc comm i t tee under the ausp ices of the M in is t ry of Transport, Trade, and Indu s t ry grants import licenses. Export licenses are granted by the M in is try of Transport, Trade, and Indu s t ry. The Central Bank is empowered to provide fore ign exchange for import paymen ts (sub ject to presentation of an import license); the latter au tho r i ty is exercised through the commercial bank s, wh i ch have all been appointed as authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Board. The authorized banks are empowered to provide foreign exchange for specified current paymen ts w i t h o ut requ i r- ing an exchange license. They may also accept free of license those inward transfers of fore ign exchange that do not result from borrowing abroad; the tak ing up of foreign loans is subject to approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. Except in the c ircums tances specified above, the au thor ized banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange w i thout the subm i s s ion of an exchange license by the rem i t ter. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Su r iname gu i lde rs between Su r iname and foreign countries other than the Ne the r lands An t i l l es are not permitted; they mu s t, in gene ra l, be made in convertible currenc ies ,2 a l though paymen ts to and from 'Deu tsche m a r k, French f r an c s, N e th e r l ands g u i l d e r s, and pounds s te r l ing. 2Au s t r a l i an do l la r s, Au s t r ian s c h i l l i n g s, Barbados do l l a r s, B e lg i an f rancs, Canad ian do l la rs, Dan i sh k rone r, deu t sche m a rk. East Car ib- bean dollars, French f ranc s, G u y a na do l la rs, I t a l i an l i r e, Japanese y e n, Ne the r lands gu i ld e r s, N o rw e g i an k rone r, Portuguese escudos, pounds s te r l ing, Swed ish kronor, Sw iss f ranc s, T r i n i d ad and Tobago d o l l a r s, and U .S. do l la r s. the Ne the r lands An t i l l es may also be made in Nether- lands An t i l lean gu i lde rs or Su r iname guilders. Nonresident Accounts Non res iden ts, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U . S. dollars w i th domestic banks; no overdrafts are perm i t ted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Su r iname guilders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general l icense, wh i le all others are subject to a specific l icense. These accounts mu st not be overdrawn and, for certain specified purposes, debits must not exceed a total of Sf 3,000 a mon th. Au thor ized banks may open accounts in Su r iname gu i lders in the name of nonresident banks; these accounts also mu st not be overdrawn. Au thor ized banks may open nonresident accounts on beha lf of nonres iden ts d raw ing pensions from the Gov- ernment or under company p lans. Transfers of up to Sf 1,500 a mon th may be effected under a general pe rm i t, and additional amoun ts may be transferred under a special pe rm i t. Nonres ident accounts in guilders may not be credited w i th Sur iname bank notes mailed from abroad; nonresident foreign currency accounts may not be credited w i th Surinamese tender. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports .3 Imports of some commod i t ies are p roh ib i ted ,4 and imports of another group of commodities are subject to quotas under Comprehensive Decree of May 1 1, 1982.5 Before app ly ing for an import license, importers are required to 3H ow e v e r, two spec i f ied m i n i ng compan ies do not need licenses for t h e ir own import r equ i r em en t s. S im i l ar exemp t ions may be granted to fo re ign compan ies for t h e ir i n d u s t r i al a c t i v i t i es in Su r iname, provided t h at t h ey pay for t h e ir imports from th e ir own foreign exchange h o l d i n g s. 4The p roh ib i t ion app l ies to imports of p igs ( e x c l u d i ng those for b r e e d i n g ), c h i c k e n, d u c k, and tu rk ey mea t, pork, f i s h, sh r imp, and c rab — f resh, cooled or f ro z en, sa l ted, d r ied, or precooked (exc lud ing kw i e - kw ie f i sh and smoked he r r ing ) —vege tab les ( e x c l u d i ng potatoes, o n i o n s, and g a r l i c ), e d i b le roots and t u b e r s, c i t ru s, banana s, p lan ta in s, and coconu t s, co f fee, green and roasted ( e x c l u d i ng d e c a f f e in a t ed ), rice and rice p roduc ts ( e x c l u d i ng baby food ), sugar ( ex c lud ing cubes and tab le ts w e i g h i ng 5 g rams or less a cube or t ab l e t ), aromatized or colored sugar or sugar sy rup, noodles and macaron i, j am, j e l l y, and ma rma lade ( e x c l u d i ng those for d iabe t ic s ), peanut bu t te r, syrups, and concen tra tes for nona lcoho l ic beverages in packages less than 5 k i l o g r ams ( e x c l u d i ng those for d iabe t ic s ), firewood and other nonprocessed wood, ra i lroad t i e s, s h i n g l e s, wooden structures for con s t ru c t ion, wooden t i l es and p an e l s, wooden tools, hand les, and coat hange rs, m e n 's and boy 's shoes ( e x c l u d i ng rubber and plastic boots and sport shoes), and sand, g r av e l, s idewa lk t i l e s, and road br icks. Impo r ts of some o ther i t em s, such as specified explosives and na rco t ic s, are p roh ib i ted for reasons of p u b l ic po l icy or hea l th. 5The commod i t i es to w h i ch import quo tas are applied in c lude kw ie- kw ie f i s h, m i lk powde r, potatoes, on ions and g a r l i c, f ru i ts and n u ts (other t h an c i t r u s, b an an a s, p l a n t a i n s, and coconu ts ), decaffe ina ted co f fee, p e a n u t s, baby food, tomato pas te, and certain preserved vege tab le s, ma tche s, f u r n i s h i n g s, and ready-made c lo th ing, and f u r n i t u re made of wood, m e t a l, bamboo, or o ther ma te r ia ls ( ex c lud ing those for bu s in e ss e s t a b l i s hm e n ts such as o f f ice s, thea ters, c l i n i c s, ho t e l s, re s tau ran t s, and l i b r a r i e s ). 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME make an advance deposit in Sur iname guilders at an authorized commercial bank. The required deposit is 50 percent of the requested import va lue for durable consumer goods, l iquo r, tobacco, cars, and motorcycles; 30 percent for yarn and fabrics, and nondurab le con- sumer goods; and 20 percent for fuels and lubricants, raw materials and intermediate inpu ts for agr icu l ture and f i sh ing, construction, food processing, beverage, to- bacco, and other manu fac tu r ing indus tr ies, and capital goods ( inc lud ing transportation equ ipmen t ). No deposit is required for imports of medical supplies and parts for maintenance of medical equ ipmen t, articles for educa- tional purposes, and mach ines and parts for ma in tenance of equipment in basic industries. Advance import de- posits are also not required for imports by (baux i te) companies that have been granted a pe rm it to make payments for imports directly from their balances held abroad. By arrangement w i th a Swiss f irm (the Societe Generate de Surve i l lance), the authorities mon i tor in- voicing of imports and exports. A government agency, the Suriname Central Import Service, acts as the ma in importer of staple foods tuffs and some other com- modities. Import prices for food products imported by other companies are checked against quotations collected by the Suriname Central Import Service. The import license serves as an au tho r iza t ion for paymen t, exchange being made available upon presenta- tion of the license. Most licenses have a v a l i d i ty of six mon ths, w i th in wh i ch period the goods mu st be landed and paid for. A license fee of 1.5 percent and a s ta t is t ical fee of 1.5 percent are levied on the c . i . f. va lue of all imports, inc lud ing imports of gold. Payments for Invisibles Transactions invo lv ing outward remittances of foreign exchange are subject to licensing; application for license must be made at least one mon th prior to the intended date for effec t ing such a transac t ion. Au thor ized banks and the General Post Office have au tho r i ty to prov ide foreign exchange up to Sf 150 an item a mon th on account of certain services (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent r igh ts, and so fo r th ); up to Sf 150 an item a month for advertising expenses and paymen ts for books; up to Sf 300 a year for each remitter in respect of g i f t s, subject to a l im it of Sf 300 a year on any one beneficiary's receipt of gifts from Surinamese residents; and up to Sf 200 and Sf 300 a month for the support of each member of the rem i t te r 's own fam i ly in the Ne ther lands An t i l les or the Ne ther- lands, respectively, subject to a l im it of Sf 600 and Sf 900 a mon th for a f am i ly u n it ( f am i ly rem i t tances up to the same amounts to other countries requ ire a license, wh ich is granted upon app l ica t ion). Travel allowances for residents are limited to the equ iva lent of Sf 250 a person for each t r ip, and a max imum of Sf 500 a person a calendar year for travel to Guyana and French Gu iana; and Sf 1,000 a person a calendar year for travel to other countries (50 percent of 450 these amoun ts for children under 12 years). The autho- rized bank mu st enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of exchange for travel not being permitted un t il three days before departure. Bona fide applications for larger amounts of exchange for travel purposes are approved on a case-by-case basis. Both resident and nonresident travelers may take out Sf 100 in Suriname currency. The export by resident travelers of foreign bank notes is l im i ted to the amount of their travel allowance. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other inves tmen ts, and payments of moderate amoun ts for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an application, supported by an aud i tor's report, is du ly presented to the Foreign Exchange Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses, wh ich for most commod i t ies are issued f ree ly, provided that the exporter unde r takes to surrender the foreign currency proceeds to an authorized bank w i th in six months of shipment. Export licenses for ca t t le, pigs, fresh beef and pork, and p l a n t i ng ma ter ia ls are granted on ly w i th the advice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboon wood is prohibited, and th at of rice is subject to special regulations. Certain exporting companies have received special permission from the Foreign Exchange Board to ma in ta in current accoun ts in fore ign currency w i th their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts ( in c lud ing export proceeds). Exports of logs are subject to a tax of 10 percent to 50 percent of f.o.b. v a lu e, depend ing on the type of wood; and exports of rough -hewn t imber are subject to a tax of 10 percent of f .o .b. value. All exports are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 percent of the f .o .b. va lue. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in fore ign currency w i thout l im it and up to Sf 100 in domestic cu r rency. Travelers must declare all domestic and foreign currency in their possession on entry; resident travelers mu st exchange at an authorized bank any foreign currency in the ir possession. The amount wh ich nonresidents may take out of the country in foreign currency mu st be smaller than the amount b rought in and declared on en t ry. Capital A decision of September 2 1, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Board provides for the transfer abroad of cap i tal proceeds from the sale to residents or the l iqu ida t ion of f u l ly or partly foreign-owned companies or o ther forms of enterprise. The decision covers invest- men ts made by nonresidents w i th foreign capital after J u ly 31, 1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange ( in c lud ing loans) imported by the nonres ident entrepreneur for the company's use. Profits must be transferred w i th in three years; o the rw ise, they are con- sidered to have become part of the f i rm 's wo rk ing cap i tal and may only be transferred in annu al ins ta l lmen ts of 20 percent. An Inves tment Law prov ides add i t ional incentives for private inves tmen t. The Foreign Exchange Board m ay, at its d isc re t ion, grant licenses for transfers abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a max imum of Sf 10,000. For estates of more than Sf 10,000, fur ther annual transfers are permitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The Board may a l low em ig ran ts (heads of f am i ly) to transfer in fore ign exchange the equ iva lent of Sf 5,000 in a lump sum, and sub sequen t ly Sf 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating f am i ly may be permitted to transfer the equ iva lent of Sf 10,000 p lus 10 percent of his total taxable earnings in Suriname accrued du r ing his period of residence; if his Surinamese assets exceed the sum thus ca lcu la ted, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sf 10,000 a year. Transfers abroad in excess of Sf 10,000 a year may be au thor ized u n d er exceptional c ircums tances. Subject to certain requ i remen ts, residents may pu r- chase or sell in specified countries6 Surinamese corpo- rate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the Foreign Exchange Board. Transfers for inves tment abroad or for the purchase of other fore ign secur i t ies or real estate by residents are not pe rm i t ted, a l though exceptions may be made for direct inve s tmen ts abroad when it is considered that Sur inamese interests w i ll benefit. All borrowing from nonresidents by nonbank residents requires prior approval by the Foreign Ex- change Board. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in p r inc ip le, to those under taken for the account of their customers, and banks are requ i red, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased. Au tho r ized banks are permitted to place a part of their l iqu id funds abroad and to use the short-term credit lines extended by th e ir foreign correspondent banks as a source of operating fund s. Following cu r ta i lment of such credit l ines in ea r ly 1983, the Central Bank, the au thor ized b ank s, and the correspondent banks have made an a r rangement whe reby the Central Bank guarantees the letters of cred it issued by the authorized banks by pledging its balances up to a specified ce i l ing, wh i le the au thor ized banks draw down and keep their balances abroad at a m in imum leve l .7 The ceiling on the ou ts tand ing letters of credit guaran teed by reserve pledges amoun ts to the equ iv a l ent of 6B e lg ium, Canada, France, Federal R epub l ic of G e rm any, I t a l y, Luxembou rg, N e th e r l and s, N e t h e r l a n ds A n t i l l e s, U n i t ed K i n g d om, and Un i ted States. 7Th is arrangement app l ies to the n a t i o n a l ly con t ro l l ed De Su r inaamsche Bank and H a k r i b a nk and not to the D u t c h - ow n ed A lgemene Bank Nede r land. SURINAME Sf 58 m i l l i o n; however, the authorized banks have been able to honor their letters of credit so that on no occasion have the pledged cen tral bank balances been d rawn upon. The au tho r ized banks have a general license to place abroad in short-term U .S. dollar assets the amoun ts corresponding to balances in the ir nonresident U .S. dollar accounts. Gold Producers of gold may sell on ly to authorized gold buye r s. Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Board by sale to the Central Bank at a price closely related to the world market price. Authorized gold buye rs are perm i t ted, however, to sell nugge ts at free ly agreed prices to the p u b l ic for indus tr ial and artistic purposes; dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unwo rked gold, w i th the exception of nugge t s, are proh ib i ted. As local produc t ion does not meet demand for indus t r ial purposes, the Central B ank imports some gold, wh ich it sells to au tho r ized gold buy e r s. Two k i n ds of gold co in, one w i th a face va lue of Sf 100 and the other Sf 200, are legal tender. Residents may hold and acqu ire gold coins in Suriname for n um i sm a t ic and inve s tment purposes; au thor ized banks may free ly negotiate gold coin among themselves and w i th o ther re s iden t s. Res iden ts other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized indus tr ial and den tal users are not allowed w i thout special permis- sion to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nugg e t s, j ew e l r y, or co in, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry requ i re exchange licenses issued by the Foreign Ex- change Board; such licenses are not no rma l ly granted except for imports and exports of coin by authorized banks and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au tho r i t i e s, producers of go ld, and indus tr ial users. Res iden ts a r r iv ing from abroad, however, may f ree ly br ing in gold, subject to declaration and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank w i th in 20 days. Non res ident trave lers also may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount f r e e l y. Impo r ts of gold coin are du ty free and those of un worked gold are subject to a d u ty of Sf 1.00 a gram, irrespective of or ig in. The general tariff for gold orna- ments is 60 percent ad va lo rem. Imports and exports of all forms of gold are subject to the statistical fee of 1.5 percent; in add i t ion, imports are subject to a l i c en s ing fee of 1.5 percen t. Changes During 1983 Administration of Control June 13. The au tho r i ty to issue import licenses was reass igned from the Foreign Exchange Board to an in te rm in is te r ial ad hoc committee under the auspices of the M in i s t ry of Transpor t, Trade, and Indu s t ry. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAME Imports and Import Payments January I. An advance impo rt depos it r e q u i r em e nt was in t roduced. Payments for Invisibles November 8, Foreign exchange a l l ow a n c es for foreign t ravel were reduced to the e q u i v a l e nt of Sf 250 a person a t r ip (up to a m a x im um of Sf 500 a person a ca lendar year) for t ravel to G u y a na and F rench G u i a n a, and Sf 1,000 a person a c a l end ar year for t ravel to all other coun t r ies ( the l i m it in each case for c h i l d r en u n d er 12 years was f ix ed at 50 pe rcent of a d u lt a l l ow a n c e s ). Proceeds from Invisibles November 8. A r egu l a t ion was in t roduced requ i r ing a ll t rade rs to dec la re dom e s t ic and fo re ign cu r renc ies in t h e ir possession on en t ry in to the coun t ry; resident t rade rs were r e q u i r ed to ex ch ange at an au tho r i z ed bank any fo re ign cu r rency in t h e ir possession. In add i t ion, it w as announ c ed t h at t he m a x i m um am o u nt th at non res i- d en ts cou ld take out of the c o u n t ry in fore ign cu r rency s h o u ld be sm a l l er t h an the am o u nt b rought in and dec la red on e n t r y. 452 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Swaziland is the Lilangeni (plural emalangeni), wh ich is pegged to the South Afr ican rand at E 1 = R 1. Exchange rates for the U .S. dollar quoted by the Central Bank of Swaziland are based on the floating middle rate of the South Afr ican rand against the U .S. dollar. Buying and selling margins, as in South Afr ica, are held w i th in 0.25 percent (US$0.0029) of the middle rate. On December 31, 1983 the off ic ial buy ing and selling rates were US$0.8190 and US$0.8180, respectively, per E 1. Rates are also quoted for the deutsche mark, the French f ranc, the pound s ter l ing, and the Swiss franc, based on the London and New York market quotations for these currencies against the U .S. dollar, and for the Kenya sh i l l ing and the Zambian kwacha, based on their relationship to the SDR. The Central Bank of Swaziland w i ll also quote rates for the currencies of member states of the Preferential Trade Area1 of Eastern and Southern African States, based on the relationship w i th the SDR as advised by the Clearing House operated by the Reserve Bank of Z imbabwe. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Exchange Control Territory Swaziland forms part of the Rand Monetary Area, which is a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, South Afr ica, and Swaz i land. No restrictions are applied to payments w i th in the Rand Monetary Area, and in principle, these are not controlled. In relation to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Swaz i land applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Afr ica. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Swaz i land, on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, controls all external currency transactions. Imports and Import Payments Swaziland is a member of a customs un ion w i th Botswana, Lesotho, and South Afr ica, and there are no import restrictions on goods or ig ina t ing in any coun try of the customs un ion. Imports from South Afr ica do not require licenses and include an unknown quan t i ty of goods originating outside the customs un ion. Insofar as Swaziland imports goods directly from coun tr ies'ou ts ide the customs un ion, such imports are u su a l ly licensed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations. Import licenses are valid for all countries and en t i t le the 'Swaz i land forma l ly became a member of the P re fe ren t ial Trade Area of Eastern and Southern A f r ican States on February 1, 1984. holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import paymen t. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are subject to licensing, ma in ly for revenue and similar reasons, but most exports are shipped without license to or through South Africa. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for current transactions, wh i le subject to control, are not normally restricted. Au thor i ty to approve some types of current payments is delegated to authorized dealers up to established limits. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel to neighboring countries is E 2,000 an adult and E 1,000 a ch i ld, a year; the corresponding annual allowance for tourist travel to other countries is E 6,000 and E 3,000 respectively. For business travel to neighboring coun- tries, the basic annual allowance is E 4,000 a person at rates not exceeding E 400 a day; the corresponding limits for business travel to other countries are E 10,000 and E 500, respectively. A higher basic allowance can be can be obtained for business and medical travels. To use credit cards outside the Rand Monetary Area, a resident cardholder must complete a letter of undertaking prior to departure. Capital Inward capital transfers should be properly docu- mented in order to facilitate the subsequent repatriation of interest, dividends, profits, and other income. No person may borrow foreign currency or register shares in the name of a nonresident, or act as a nominee for a nonres iden t, w i thout prior approval. Applications for most outward transfers of capital are considered on their merits. Blocked emalangeni may be invested in quoted securities and other such investments as may be approved by the Central Bank. Changes During 1983 Administration of Control December 8. In a s imp l if ica t ion of exchange con- trols, it was announced that the fo l low ing mon th ly returns would no longer be required: (1) returns in respect of transactions in amounts of E 200,000 and above; and (2) returns in respect of open positions in foreign currencies. (Returns in respect of forward foreign exchange contracts would continue to be sub- mitted pending completion of arrangements for the daily reporting of authorized dealers' open positions.) Nonresident Accounts July 6. The distinction between Botswana Accounts and the accounts of other nonresidents was discontinued, 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND and the accounts of all nonres iden ts were designated as Nonresident Accoun ts. Payments for Invisibles February 7. The annu al l im i ts on foreign exchange allowance for foreign travel were increased as fo l lows: (1) for tourist travel to ne ighbor ing coun t r ie s, from E 1,500 to E 2,000 an adu lt and from E 750 to E 1,000 a ch i ld; (2) for tourist travel to other coun t r ies, from E 4,000 to E 6,000 an adu lt and from E 2,000 to E 3,000 a ch i ld; (3) for business travel to ne ighbo r ing coun t r ies, from E 3,000 a person ( inc lud ing a m ax imum of E 200 a day) to E 4,000 ( in c lud ing a m a x im um of E 400 a day ); and (4) for business travel to other countries, from E 7,500 (w i th in a m a x im um of E 250 a day) to E 10,000 (within a max imum of E 500 a day). In add i t ion, ex is t ing regulations on invisible paymen ts were relaxed as fol- lows: (1) transfer of legacies and d i s t r i b u t i o ns from estates of persons who at the t ime of death were regarded as permanen t ly resident in the Rand Mone tary Area were increased from E 20,000 to E 100,000 for t rans fer by authorized dealers w i thout reference to the Cen tral B a n k, and the balance was made t rans fe rab le upon au tho r iza- tion by the Central Bank; (2) the l im it on export of jewe l ry ( i n c l u d i ng articles of gold jewe lry inherited by non re s iden t s, i n c l u d i ng em ig ran t s, from deceased estates in the Rand Monetary Area) was increased from E 200 to E 20,000 a benef ic iary for export through authorized dealers w i thout reference to the Central Bank, subject to tender ing documen tary evidence; and (3) cash bequests and the f u ll cash proceeds of legacies and d is tr ibu t ions from the Swaziland portion of estates of deceased persons ( i n c l u d i ng em ig ran ts who at the t ime of death were domiciled outside the Rand Monetary Area) were made t rans fe rab le th rough normal bank ing channels w i t h o ut reference to the Central Bank. (Previously, au tho r ized dealers cou ld allow only E 2,000 a bene f ic ia ry .) December 24. Au tho r iza t ion was granted for credit card holders in the Rand Monetary Area to use such cards ou ts ide the Area, up to the amount of the app l icab le travel a l lowance. (Prev ious ly, use of such cards was l im i ted to 50 percent of the applicable travel a l low an c e .) Capital February 7. As part of a set of l ibera l iza t ion mea- sures, Swaz i land abolished the free ly f loa t ing financial rand ma rke t. 454 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sweden is the Swed ish K rona. In managing the exchange rate of the k rona, the Sveriges R iksbank (the central b ank) is gu ided by a trade- weighted index based on a basket of 15 currenc ies of Sweden's most impor tant t rad ing pa r tne rs. In cons t ruc t- ing the index the Swedish au thor i t ies established two criteria to be met by each coun try and currency inc luded in the basket: ( 1) the coun try had to account for at least 1 percent of Sweden's total fo re ign trade (expor ts p l us imports) du r ing the prev ious f ive-year period and (2) each currency had to be quoted da i ly on the fore ign exchange ma rket in S tockho lm. The we igh ts are propor- tional to Sweden's fore ign trade w i th each of the countries whose currenc ies are in c lud ed in the i n d e x, w i th the exception that the we ight of the U . S. do l lar has been doubled and that of the o ther cu r renc ies ad jus ted accordingly. To take account of changes in average trade shares the we igh ts are ad jus ted each year (on Ap r il 1) on the basis of trade s ta t is t ics for the last f ive ca lendar years. At p resen t, the we igh ts are as fo l lows (base period 1978-82): U .S. do l lar Deutsche mark Pound s ter l ing No rweg ian krone Danish krone Finnish markka French franc Ne the r lands gu i ld er Belgian f ranc I ta l ian l ira Japanese yen Swiss franc Aus t r ian s ch i l l ing Spanish peseta Canad ian do l lar Total 1 8 .1 16.6 13.0 9 .3 8.5 7.4 5.6 5 .2 3.7 3.7 2 .7 2 .3 1.6 1 .2 1 .1 100.0 The index va lue of 132 represents the benchma rk for the e f fec t ive va lue fo l low ing the d ev a lu a t ion on Octo- ber 8, 1982 (Augu st 29, 1977 = 100). The exchange rate is managed so as to a l low on ly l im i t ed f l u c t u a t i o ns around th is benchma rk. An average of the d a i ly index va lues is pub l ished week ly by the R i k s b a n k. The ma rket buy ing and se l l ing rates for spot t ransac t ions in U . S. dollars, the in te rven t ion cu r rency, on December 3 1, 1983 were SKr 7.8002 and SKr 8.0000, re spec t ive ly, per US$1. Spot rates for other currenc ies are es tab l ished on the basis of the cross rates in international markets. Forward market rates are le ft to the in te rp lay of ma rket forces. There are no taxes or sub s id ies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Au thor ized banks may buy from and se ll to o ther au tho r ized banks any fore ign currency on a spot basis aga in st ano ther fore ign cu r rency or Swedish kronor. They may also pu rchase fo re ign currenc ies, spot, from fore ign banks and other nonres iden ts against any foreign cu r rency or Swed ish k ronor credited to an Ex ternal K ronor Account (see section on Non re s ident Accoun ts, b e l ow ). They may se ll fo re ign cu r renc ies, spot, to fore ign banks and other non res iden ts against any other fore ign currency or Swed ish kronor debited to an Ex te rnal Kronor Accoun t. Au tho r ized banks may conclude w i th residents other than banks forward exchange transac t ions in foreign currencies ag a in st Swed ish kronor covering cu r rent and au tho r ized p aym en ts for (1) u n l im i t ed periods in respect of rece ip ts on the one h a n d, and p aym en ts for imports, f r e igh t, and cha r ter services on the other; (2) periods not exceed ing 12 mon ths in respect of repayment of loans abroad for re f inanc ing of credits granted in Swedish kronor in connec t ion w i th Swed ish exports; and (3) 6 mon ths in respect of other paymen ts. Forward t ransac t ions may be conc luded on ly to cover paymen ts for w h i ch an ag reement ex i s t s. Howeve r, export f i rm s, w h en t end e r ing, may make forward sales of settlement on the env isaged date of p aym ent or on the exp i ry date for tende r ing. A bank may not credit a customer w i th any p ro f it on canceled forward transac t ions. Under specified cond i t ion s, Swed ish res iden ts who have raised loans in fo re ign currency may buy forward the currency of the loan aga inst ano ther fore ign cu r rency. Au tho r ized b anks may buy from and sell to other au tho r ized bank s, fo rwa rd, any foreign currency against ano ther fo re ign currency or Swed ish kronor. Au thor ized b a n ks may buy from or sell to fore ign bank s, on a fo rwa rd bas is, any fo re ign currency against another fore ign currency or Swed ish kronor for a period not exceed ing 12 m o n t h s. Such t ransac t ions w i th foreign banks m a y, how ev e r, be for periods exceeding 12 mon ths if made in cover of forward transac t ions w i th re s iden t s. Sweden fo rma l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of Ar t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange con tro ls are adm in is te red by the R ik sb ank th rough i ts Ex ch ange Control Board. The Board's decisions may be appealed to the Gove rn ing Board of the R i k s b a n k. Au tho r i z ed b anks and some other au thor ized agencies imp l em ent the exchange control regu la t ions. All current paymen ts (as defined in Sweden's ex- change control leg i s la t ion) are exempt from exchange con tro l, p rov ided that they are made th rough an autho- rized bank in accordance w i th the currency prescriptions issued by the R i k s b a n k. The au thor ized b anks have been 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN granted general licenses giving them power to approve various payments that are subject to exchange control. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Commerce, except those for foodstuffs, which are issued by the National Ag r icu l tu ral Marke t ing Board, and those for gold and gold a l loys, wh ich are issued by the Riksbank. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through any External Kronor Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kronor w i th authorized banks in Sweden: External Kronor Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other nonresident accounts are Foreign Exchange Ac- counts, Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Sweden, and Foreign Wages Accounts. External Kronor Accounts may be held by nonresi- dents domiciled abroad. These accounts may be credited with transfers from other External Kronor Accounts, w i th authorized payments to foreign countries by resi- dents of Sweden, and w i th sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for transfers to any other External Kronor Account and for authorized payments to resi- dents of Sweden, and they may be converted into any foreign currency. External Kronor Accounts do not normally bear interest. Restricted Accounts are held by persons who have been residents of Sweden but became nonresidents after emigrating. The accounts may be credited w i th amortiza- tion payments on loans granted before emigration or granted with funds in Restricted Accoun ts, inher i tances, and legacies due to the account holder, interest accrued to, and earnings f rom, assets in Sweden, and proceeds from sales of assets in Sweden owned by the account holder. The sale of unlisted Swedish shares, however, requires authorization. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for payments in Sweden for expenses related to the administration and maintenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; ma in tenance ex- penses of the account holder and his fam i ly; minor merchandise purchases; real estate; taxes and other official charges; gifts to, and for the support of, persons domiciled in Sweden; amortization and interest pay- ments on loans raised by the emigrant before em igra t ing; loans to residents (provided that repayments are made to the Restricted Account); purchases of Swedish bonds, denominated in Swedish kronor, and of listed Swedish shares provided that such bonds and shares are deposited w i th authorized Swedish banks and provided that in the event of resale the proceeds are recredited to the Restricted Account. 456 Foreign Exchange Accounts1 are held in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited w i th autho- rized paymen ts in foreign currencies due to the account holder and w i th accrued interest. Balances on such accounts may be used for mak ing authorized payments in foreign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited w i th transfers from abroad of foreign currencies, or transfers from External Kronor Accounts, or from other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for transfers to any other Foreign Exchange Account or to External Kronor Accounts. Balances on Foreign Exchange Ac- counts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Swe- den may be maintained by banks and may be credited with payments in Sweden in favor of an account holder and w i th accrued interest; they may be used for with- drawals in kronor in Sweden. Foreign Wages Accounts are intended to facilitate payment of salaries, wages, and other remunerations of persons sent abroad from Sweden and employed by Swedish employers. The accounts may be opened with authorized banks w i thout prior determination of resi- dential status. However, residents may use the funds in these accounts when abroad only for maintenance ex- penses and purchases for personal use, wh i le a nonresi- dent may use such funds freely abroad and for authorized paymen ts in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of some agricultural and fishery products, practically all goods are free from quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, the German Demo- cratic Repub l ic, Hunga ry, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U .S .S .R ., and Viet Nam. However, most imports from these countries are liberalized. Some imports from Japan require licenses. Imports of certain textile products from some countries and territories (Braz i l, Hong Kong, Ind ia, Indonesia, the Repub l ic of Korea, Macao, Malay- s ia, Ma l ta, Mau r i t ius, Pakistan, the Philippines, Portu- gal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Ta iwan ,t Thailand, and Yugos lav ia) are limited through special arrangements. In add i t ion, imports of rubber boots from any country other than member countries of the EC or the EFTA are subject to global quota restrictions, and imports of specified textiles and garments from any source other than EC or EFTA countries (w i th the exception of Portugal), as well as imports of most iron and steel 'Re s iden ts may also m a in t a in Foreign Exchange Accounts in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited w i th authorized receipts in fore ign currencies and debited for authorized paymen ts in foreign currencies. Payment of in terest on such accounts is allowed for up to 60 days (accoun ts held by sh ipp ing companies, insurance companies, and au thor ized banks may bear interest w i thout a time l im i t ). tSee Exp lana to ry Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 52. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to import products from all countries, are subject licensing for surveillance purposes. Payments for imports, in c lud ing normal advance payments, may, as current paymen t s, be made w i t h o ut permission through authorized banks and w i t h o ut the formality of presenting an import license. If the cond i- tions specified for current paymen ts (see section on Payments for Inv is ib les, be low) are not me t, an ex- change control permit is required. Importers are per- mitted to accept foreign supp l iers' credits, provided that these do not exceed what is regarded as cus toma ry. Payments for Invisibles The exchange control regu la t ions de f ine and l ist those categories of payments abroad that are considered as current paymen ts. Persons dom ic i led in Sweden may make such paymen ts w i thout res tr ic t ion in favor of persons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that cap i tal payments are not made in the gu ise of cu r rent paymen ts. Payments not exceeding the equ iva lent of SKr 3,000 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks; however, pa r t ial payment of an amount in excess of SKr 3,000 or paymen ts made repeatedly require the approval of such a bank or, for purposes that the banks are not au thor ized to approve, of the R ik sbank. L ife insurance p rem iums in excess of SKr 3,000 a person a calendar year requ ire the approval of the Riksbank; such approval is norma l ly g iven freely for both existing and new policies. Authorized banks and other authorized agencies may allocate foreign exchange for travel abroad up to an amount considered reasonable in l ight of the purpose and duration of the jou rney. For a j o u r n e y, the p r ima ry purpose of wh ich is to make purchases for personal use, up to SKr 100,000 may be allocated. Each person leaving Sweden may take out Swed ish bank notes and coin up to SKr 6,000. Swed ish res iden ts wh i le abroad may open accoun ts abroad, provided that such accounts are closed at the term ina t ion of such a stay and that the amount on the c los ing date is re turned to Sweden. Nonresidents leav ing Sweden may export free ly foreign bank notes and other means of payment wh i ch have been acquired abroad or from an au thor ized bank or other authorized agency in Sweden. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to the People's Democratic R epub l ic of Korea, as well as exports of specialized steel to the United States, are subject to export l i c en s ing. All exports, w i th some exceptions such as ships and scrap metal, are free from license if payment is to be received in conformity w i th the general regu la t ions (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a foreign currency account w i th a Swed ish authorized bank and used by the ho lder to make SWEDEN au thor ized paymen ts abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank for Swedish kronor. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from inv i s ib l es are subject to the same trea tment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each person entering Sweden may for t rave l ing expenses bring in un l im i ted amoun ts of bank notes, co in, and other means of p aym en t. Capital Direct inve s tment abroad by Swedish residents requ ires i n d i v i d u al au tho r iza t ion, wh ich normally is g ran ted. Au tho r iza t ion may be conditional on financing by a loan in fore ign currency abroad or from an autho- rized Swed ish b a n k. The loans mu st have an average m a tu r i ty of at least five years. Such f inanc ing is not requ ired for inve s tmen ts in sales companies and other compan ies wh i ch to a s ign i f icant extent give rise to exports from Sweden, for inves tmen ts invo lv ing rela- t i v e ly sma ll amoun t s, or for inves tmen ts in countries that are the m a in recipients of Swedish development assist- ance. Res iden ts may, on app l ica t ion, transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate va lued at up to SKr 250,000 a f am i l y. New inves tment in South A f r i ca and N am i b ia has been banned since J u ly 1, 1979. A Swed ish res ident when em ig ra t ing is permitted to t ran s fer up to SKr 200,000, subject to verification by the R i k s b a n k. When Swedish residents emigrate for a l im i t ed per iod, app l ica t ions for transfers in excess of the i n i t i al SKr 200,000 are considered in a restrictive manner. Transfers on account of inher i tances that are due to non res iden ts are perm i t ted. Au thor ized banks may freely approve paymen ts abroad in respect of var ious categories of r em i t t an c e s, i n c l u d i ng those for g i f ts and support p aym en ts up to SKr 5,000 a calendar year. Res iden ts are permitted to accept capital receipts from abroad on account of l i f e, pens ion, and annu i ty con- trac ts; con t rac tual amor t iza t ion of the ir inves tmen ts; the sale of fo re ign secur i t ies, real estate abroad, and per- sonal property he ld by them abroad; and g i f ts and inheritances. Residents may accept other kinds of capital receipts from abroad upon approval from the R ik sbank. Res iden ts who w i sh to receive loans or credits other th an normal supp l ie r s' credits from nonresidents must receive au tho r iza t ion to do so; enterprises are normally pe rm i t ted to borrow fore ign currency abroad or from an au tho r ized bank for periods of at least f ive years2 on average and for amoun ts of at least SKr 10 m i l l ion, w i th the exception of borrowings for a few specified pur- poses. Loans of up to SKr 100,000 from relatives abroad do not requ i re i n d i v i d u al au tho r iza t ion. 2The m i n i m um te rm was changed from f ive years to two years on Ma rch 1, 1984. 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN The Riksbank permits exporters to cover their normal suppliers' credits through borrowing in foreign currency abroad or from an authorized bank. A Swedish exporter may, w i thout permission from the R iksbank, raise such a loan for up to six months from an authorized bank in order to finance such a credit which he, as a supplier, normally provides for not more than six months. The Riksbank normally permits a Swedish exporter to raise a loan in foreign currency abroad or from an authorized bank in order to f inance production costs of major export orders. Suppliers' credits granted by Swedish shipyards may be refinanced in foreign currency abroad or in an authorized bank even if the credit serves to finance sales of ships to Swedish shipowners. Swedish importers can also be granted permission to take up credit in foreign currency abroad or in an authorized bank to f inance imports. A Swedish importer may, w i thout permission from the R iksbank, raise such a loan for up to six months from an authorized bank in order to finance his own imports, if suppliers' credits are norma l ly available to him for not more than six mon ths. Borrowing by way of normal suppliers' credits does not require permission, and other borrowing to finance imports is approved where the borrowing itself and the repayment terms are in conformity w i th normal commercial practice. In this context, authorized banks are, upon application, per- mitted to extend to the foreign counterpart of a Swedish exporter or importer (or his bank) credit intended to finance import and export transactions, and to ref inance such credit through a corresponding foreign borrowing. Permission for the f inanc ing of the export and import transactions mentioned above requires that the credits conform to normal commercial practice. AB Svensk Exportkredit is allowed to provide credit in accordance w i th the ordinances (1981:665 and 1981:357) on f inanc- ing export credits w i th state support. Subject to these regulations AB Svensk Exportkredit may, w i thout a permit from the R iksbank, (1) supply credit to a Swedish exporter or an authorized bank or to a foreign buyer or his bank and (2) effect the granting of credit by an exporter or an authorized bank to a foreign buyer or his bank. Residents are not normally permitted to extend f inanc ial loans to nonresidents. Authorized banks may, under a Riksbank permit, raise loans abroad in foreign currency for on-lending to resident enterprises for not more than six months for f inanc ing imports of merchandise and providing credits for exports of merchandise. Authorized banks may also raise loans abroad in foreign currency for long-term on- lending to enterprises, w i th the exception of lending for a few specified purposes. Such loans must have an average l i fe of at least five years3 and the amount in each case may not exceed SKr 10 million. The borrowing enter- prise is not required to obtain a permit. Foreign-owned companies in Sweden u su a l ly are 3The m i n im um term was changed from f ive years to two years on March 1, 1984, w i th the exception of loans to finance authorized direct inves tmen ts abroad, for w h i ch an average l i fe of at least f ive years was re ta ined. 458 permitted to borrow long term from the parent compa- n ies. Genera l ly, the repayment of foreign credits at any date other than that specified in the contract requires a new authorization from the R iksbank; such authori- zations are granted res tr ic t ive ly. However, the Riksbank norma l ly permits companies, local authorities, and au- thorized banks to (1) redeem the loan in advance by raising a new loan abroad with at least the same average l i fe as the rema in ing average l ife of the redeemed loan and (2) redeem bond loans by purchases in the market not more than nine months in advance of the redemption date. Permission is needed for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresidents. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require authori- za t ion, wh ich normally is g iven. Investments below SKr 5 m i l l ion may be who l ly financed w i th domestic credit, as may up to 50 percent of individual investments beyond that amoun t. The transfer of the liquidation proceeds of such inves tmen ts, inc lud ing appreciation, requires au thor iza t ion, wh ich is always given. In connection w i th nonres iden ts' purchases of real estate in Sweden for recreational purposes, residents may, w i thout au thor iza t ion, both receive payment from, and grant credit to, nonresidents. This also applies to nonresidents' purchases of real estate for other purposes if they come to l ive in Sweden. Banks are permitted to assist in the f inanc ing of the purchase. Acquisition by foreigners of real estate in Sweden a lways requires approval according to regu la t ions other than exchange control regu la t ions. Res iden ts do not need au thor iza t ion to sell portfolio ho ld ings of foreign securities to nonresidents. The purchase of both listed and unlisted foreign securities by residents from nonresidents requires authorization. As a ru le, such au thor iza t ion is not granted. However, autho- rized banks and stockbrokers are authorized to purchase from nonres iden ts, on behalf of residents, listed foreign securities and listed Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies using the proceeds from sales to nonresidents of Swedish-held securities denominated in foreign currencies, provided that the purchase is made w i th in six months of the corresponding sale. Residents may w i thout au tho r iza t ion buy foreign securities from other res iden ts. A general license permits the repurchase from abroad of listed Swed ish securities denominated in kroner, provided that an a f f idav it can be produced showing either (1) that at no time du r ing the last five calendar years have the securities been owned by a person domiciled in Sweden or (2) that the securities have been acquired w i th the permission of the Swedish exchange au thor i t ies from a person domiciled in Sweden. The a f f idav it is not required when the securities are registered w i th the Secur i t ies Register Center. The authorized banks and stockbrokers may hand le purchases by nonres- idents of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor when payment is to be made in the form of other s im i lar securities, provided that (1) the foreign seller and buyer are the same person in each case; (2) the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution aforementioned a f f idav it requ iremen ts are met or the securities are registered w i th the Securities Register Center; (3) foreign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; and (4) not more than three months pass between the date of the purchase from and the date of the sale to the foreign party. The export of securities owned by nonresidents other than Swedish em igran ts is not restricted. Ceilings are placed on the net foreign exchange holdings of each authorized bank. Banks may grant on ly normal overdrafts to nonresidents. They may incur foreign exchange l iab i l i t ies, but may not ma in ta in a net l iab i l i ty in any one currency. Th is, together w i th the permission to pay interest on foreign exchange deposits held by nonresidents, enables the banks to borrow foreign currency from nonresidents for on - lend ing (but not in the form of kronor) to foreign banks. Swedish banks may not borrow abroad free ly in order to sell the proceeds against Swedish kronor in the ma rke t, but under certain conditions they may be granted perm iss ion to borrow abroad to relend in Sweden (see above). Nonres iden ts' holdings of kronor in Ex ternal Kronor Accounts mu st not be "abnormal," and, w i th m inor exceptions, they cannot earn interest. Gold Gold in any form may be he ld, purchased, and sold w i th in Sweden. Imports and exports of gold and gold alloys require licenses issued by the R ik sb ank; the types of gold affected are unm anu f a c tu r ed gold and most types of sem imanufac tured gold. Import licenses are norma l ly granted to jewelers, dental laboratories, and users of gold for indus tr ial and scientific purposes, as well as to persons and firms importing for resale to these categories of users. As a general ru le, no licenses are issued for the import of gold to be held on private account. Commer- SWEDEN cial imports and exports of articles con ta in ing gold, such as j ew e l ry, may be made free ly. Changes During 1983 Payments for Invisibles December 20. In a s imp l if ica t ion of the regulations concerning allocation of exchange for travel abroad, it was decided tha t, w i th effect from J anu a ry 1, 1984, the authorized banks and the authorized agencies wou ld be permitted to allocate amounts considered reasonable in l ight of the purpose and dura t ion of the jou rney. The l im it for allocation of foreign exchange for jou rneys, the pr imary purpose of wh i ch is to make purchases abroad of goods for personal use, was raised from SKr 75,000 to SKr 100,000. In add i t ion, the p roh ib i t ion on export and import of Swedish bank notes of h igher denomination than SKr 100 was abrogated. Exports and Export Proceeds November 1. Licenses were introduced for exports of specialized steel to the Un i ted States. Capital May 25. In a mod if ica t ion of the ex is t ing understand- ing that local governments (except the largest) would borrow abroad via the ir credit in s t i tu t ion s, the unde r ly- ing d i s t inc t ion was dropped, and it became possible for local governmen ts to obtain perm i ts to borrow abroad directly or via an authorized bank. July 19. It was decided that there wou ld no longer be a l im it (p rev ious ly SKr 50,000) to the credit that a bank could provide to a nonresident to f inance the acqu is i t ion of a recreational dwe l l ing in Sweden. November 30. It was decided that foreign exchange wou ld be no rm a l ly ob ta inab le for pu rchas ing real estate or an apar tment abroad va lued at up to SKr 250,000 (p rev ious ly SKr 175,000). 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND1 (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss Franc. The Swiss National Bank does not ma in ta in margins in respect of exchange transactions; exchange rates are determined, in principle, on the basis of unde r ly ing demand and supply conditions in the exchange marke ts. However, the Swiss National Bank intervenes when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the market. The principal intervention currency is the U .S. dollar; the market rate for the Swiss franc in terms of the U .S. dollar on December 30, 1983 was Sw F 2.1750 per US$1. All settlements may be made at free market rates. Foreign bank notes are negotiated freely in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supp ly and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import and export the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory. For purposes of exchange con tro l, na tural persons domiciled in Liechtenstein are considered by Switzerland as residents and so are juridical persons (including banks), other than letterbox companies, oper- ating business in either coun try. However, th is rule does not apply if the acquisition of Swiss real estate is involved. Liechtenstein is considered a foreign country for purposes of bank ing supervision. Administration of Control Au thor i ty to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting on the advice of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Depart- ment of Foreign A f fa i rs. The Swiss Na t ional Bank is the advisory and executive authority in matters of currency for both Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made or received in any currency. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, imports into Sw i tzer land may be made free ly. The importation of bu t ter and alcohol is subject to state control. The most important commodities subject to license, irrespective of their origin, are certain agricultural products, petroleum products, and wash ing preparations and their compounds. Import permits for goods under license are generally granted f ree ly, but global quotas are established for certain agr icu l tural products. Imports of textiles from specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price cer t if ica t ion. Pay- ments for imports from all countries may be made f ree ly. Payments for Invisibles Payments for inv is ib les may be made free ly. The export of Swiss and foreign bank notes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export ( inc lud ing re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through ind iv idual licenses. This export l icens ing system is operated in part w i th the assistance of appropriate semiofficial or private organ- iza t ions. Export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from inv is ib les are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign bank notes is free. Capital Transfers of capital may be made without formality except that bank credits and other bank lending to nonres iden ts, when exceeding Sw F 10 million each and w i th a ma tur i ty of 12 months or more, require permis- sion. Permission is also required for foreign bond issues in Sw i tzer land and for direct participations by Swiss banks in Eurobond issues; in the case of foreign bond issues, there is a queu ing system together w i th a limit of Sw F 100 m i l l ion an i s sue .2 All proposed first place- ments of medium-term negotiable paper (notes) in amoun ts of Sw F 10 m i l l ion or more must be submitted to the Na t ional Bank for au thor iza t ion. The National Bank w i ll not approve foreign bond issues with an original m a tu r i ty of less than eight years; the acceptable range of m a tu r i ty for notes is from 18 months to eight years w i th m i n im um subparticipations of Sw F 50,000. The m i n im um amount for subparticipations may be reduced as a result of partial repayments. Early repay- men ts of bonds m a y, in general, be made only after five years, wh i le advance repayments of notes may be made as early as 18 months after placement but not before one half of the overall ma tu r i ty has elapsed. Notes must remain deposited for the account of the investor with the issu ing bank or a bank that has participated in the issuing synd ica te; as noted below, separate provisions apply to the physical exportation or importation of securities. The bank reques t ing au thor iza t ion is required to indicate to the Na t ional Bank if notes are to be placed exclusively or predominantly with foreign governments or monetary au thor i t ies. The Na t ional Bank reserves the right in such cases to condition its au thor iza t ion on a special agree- ment w i th the foreign authority concerned. Foreign in s t i tu t ions are allowed to participate as sub-underwriters in syndicated Swiss franc credits, provided that they are not mentioned either in the arrangement or publicly. Credits w i th mu l t icurrency clauses are subject to the 'Sw i tze r land is not a member of the In t e rn a t ion al Mone tary Fund. 2W i th e f fect from J a n u a ry 1, 1984, t h is provision has been amended to es tab l ish a l im it of Sw F 200 m i l l i on w i thout a queu ing system. 460 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution same cond i t ions as those denom ina ted in Swiss francs if the Swiss franc is the base currency in the credit arrangement. The phys ical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities other than notes are unres tr ic ted. In 1983 the banks were not subject to reserve requ iremen ts; they are perm i t ted to pay interest on Swiss franc deposits ( i n c l u d i ng "f iduc iary" or "trus- tee" fund s) received from nonres iden ts. Banks and f inance companies are required to report monthly their forward and dealer positions (their own assets and l iab i l i t ies in foreign currenc ies, spot and forward) in foreign currencies; a select n um b er of them have to report their dealer position on a week ly bas is. Swiss banks may participate in loans w i th mu l t ip le currency clauses. Purchases of real estate in Sw i tze r land by or on behalf of persons or f i rms of foreign n a t i o n a l i ty who are domiciled or resident abroad requ ire approval by the canton where the property is s i tua ted. The approvals of the cantons are subject to superv is ion and appeal by the Confederation. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Res iden ts may freely purchase, ho ld, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in Zu r ich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unres tr ic ted and free of l icense. No customs du t ies or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold bars and of certain gold coins are exempt from customs du ty, but all sales of gold bars and coins w i th in Switzerland are subject to the retail sales tax. An exception is made, howeve r, in cer ta in c i rcum- stances for gold or gold coins purchased by fore ign central banks. Import and export l icenses, wh i ch are issued f ree ly, are required for commerc ial impor ts and exports of certain articles con ta in ing go ld. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments January I. The Federal Counc il amended the Ordi- nance of May 26, 1982 e s t ab l i sh ing p re fe ren t ial cus toms duties in favor of developing countries in order to g ive effect to the reduc t ion of mos t-favored-na t ion du ty rates under the Tokyo Round. The ad ju s tm ent of ta r i ff SWITZERLAND preferences on the basis of the new lower most-favored- na t ion rates affected products not bene f i t ing from du ty- free t rea tmen t, n am e l y, cer ta in ag r i cu l tu r al products, tex t i le s, c lo th ing, foo twear, um b r e l l a s, unwo rked a lum i- n um, and d ry -ce ll ba t ter ies. January 1. The Federal Counc il amended the Ordi- nance of J u ly 1, 1975 concern ing ru les of origin govern ing the grant of ta r i ff preferences to developing coun t r ies. July I. The Swiss Government added five countries (D j i b o u t i, Equa tor ial Gu inea, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, and Togo) to the list of least developed coun tr ies e l ig ib le for special t rea tment under the Swiss scheme of ta r i ff preferences. Capital January 12. The Federal B ank ing Comm iss ion issued a d i rec t ive r equ i r ing large bank s, other Swiss banks operating abroad, and all foreign-controlled banks in Sw i tze r land to report by the end of Apr il the ir risk exposure in each fo re ign coun t ry as at the end of December 1982. April 26. The Sw iss Na t ional Bank decided th a t, w i th effect from the end of 1984, Swiss banks wou ld be requ ired to make sem i -annual reports to the Swiss N a t ion al Bank g i v i ng consolidated statistics on the ir fore ign exposures, i n c l u d i ng details of foreign bus iness ac t iv i ty of w h o l ly owned and dom ina ted subs id iar ies, c lass if ied according to coun t ry, cu r rency, and ma tu r i ty and between banks and nonbank s. September 9. The Sw iss N a t ion al Bank announced that it wou ld no longer grant au tho r iza t ion for pub l ic issues on the Sw iss bond market by fo re ign export credit agencies. Private p lacemen ts and direct credits from banks w o u l d, however, be permitted under certain cond i t ion s. Lenders were asked to ensure that the legal documen ta t ion for such arrangemen ts inc luded a con- t rac tual ob l iga t ion on the part of the borrower to respect the OECD consensus on export credit rates. November 25. The Swiss Na t ional Bank announced that fore ign export credit agencies could again issue p u b l ic bonds in the form of e i ther p u b l ic issues or pr iva te p lacemen ts, provided that borrowing en t i t ies did not v io la te the OECD consensus on gu ide l ines for o f f ic ia l ly supported export cred i ts. 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Sy r ian Arab R e p u b l ic is the Syrian Pound, wh ich is pegged to the U . S. do l la r, the in te rven t ion currency, at LS 3.925 = US$1 in the off ic ial marke t. On April 22, 1981 the Sy r ian A rab Repub l ic re-established a pa ra l lel ma rket a long w i th the o f f ic ial marke t. A th i rd fore ign exchange market (the "tourist market") w i th a more depreciated rate than the parallel market rate applies to pr iva te inwa rd t rans fe rs and tourist t ransac t ions. The para l lel market covers most private t ransac t ions, i n c l u d i ng import p aym en ts by the private sector, wh i le the o f f ic ial market covers a large proportion of the transac t ions of the p u b l ic sector and specified export t ransac t ions of the pr iva te sector. The Syrian Arab Repub l ic conf ines i ts b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for the U .S. dollar w i t h in LS 3.90 and LS 3.95, respectively, per US$1 in the o f f i c i al ma rke t; on Decem- ber 31, 1983 the o f f ic ial b u y i ng and se l l ing rates were LS 3.90 and LS 3.95, respec t ive ly, per US$1. B u y i ng and selling rates for all major currencies are quoted on the basis of the o f f ic ial market rates, the para l lel market rates, and the tou r ist market rates for the U . S. do l lar and the market rates for the currenc ies concerned in ma rke ts ab road .' Administration of Control Policy w i th regard to imports and exports is deter- mined by the M in is t ry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Cen tral Bank of Sy r ia and the Adm in is t ra t ive Comm i t tee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the M in i s t ry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for inv i s ib l es and cap i tal transac- tions by the Exchange O f f ice. On ly authorized commer- cial banks may deal in fore ign exchange. The commer- cial banks may open letters of credit on ly w i th the prior approval of the Exchange Off ice. At present there is one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Sy r ia, w h i ch has been au tho r ized by the Exchange Off ice to open letters of credit and accept b i l ls for co l lec t ion w i t h o ut prior approval, provided that certain cond i t ions are fu l f i l l ed. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. Proceeds of exports to all countries may be ob ta ined in any convert- ible currency, and such proceeds may also be received in bank notes denominated in conver t ib le currencies and 'B e lg i an f ranc s, Canad ian do l l a r s, D a n i sh k ron e r, deu tsche m a r k, French f ranc s, Iraqi d ina r s, I t a l i an l i r e, Jordan d ina r s, Lebanese pound s, N e th e r l ands gu i ld e r s, pounds s t e r l i n g, Saudi A r a b i an r i y a l s, Swedish kronor, Swiss f ranc s, and U . S. do l la r s. 462 declared at the border posts of en t ry. Prescription of currency requ i remen ts are not applied to outgoing p aym en t s. A ll p aym en ts to and receipts from Egypt, Is rae l, and South A f r ica are prohibited. The Syrian Arab R epub l ic m a in t a ins b i la te ral paymen ts agreements with the the U . S . S . R ., V iet N am, and Sri Lanka, as well as a commerc ial protocol of commodity exchange w i th the Is lam ic Repub l ic of I ran. Nonresident Accounts Non res ident accounts in Syrian pounds may be cred- ited w i th the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the au thor ized bank and w i th paymen ts for goods. They may be debited w i t h o ut p r ior approval to pay for Syrian exports to the coun t ry of the account holder and for expenses in the Syrian Arab Repub l ic. Nonresidents may open fore ign currency accoun ts in the Syrian Arab R epub l i c; they are not requ ired to present evidence that they have sources of income abroad. Resident nationals w i s h i ng to open such fo re ign accounts are required to present ev idence in w r i t i ng of sources of income abroad. Transfers abroad from these accoun ts may be made f r e e ly. Temporary nonres ident accounts may be opened in the name of non res iden ts temporarily resident in the Syrian Arab R e p u b l i c. These accounts may not be used, howeve r, for funds received in settlement currencies, th rough paymen ts conven t ions, or by d ip loma t ic and UN m iss ions and th e ir s taffs. Permitted credits inc lude the local currency proceeds of foreign currency brought in at the pa ra l lel exchange market rate and amoun ts corre- spond ing to import paymen ts that are not transferred. Debits for local expend i tu res are completely free, and debits for expend i tures abroad also are permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commod i t ies o r ig ina t ing in Egyp t, Israel, or South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Many basic commodities ( i n c l u d i ng green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and certain ag r icu l tu ral mach inery) are imported on ly by s ta te- trad ing agencies or, for the ir own accoun t, by certain other off ic ial agencies. Agencies e x c l u s i v e ly q u a l i f i ed to import may import certain commod i t ies to meet the raw material needs of the p r iva te sector. Imports are d iv ided in to two categories: (1) imports proh ib i ted by decree and specified in a Prohibited List, wh i ch comprises mos t ly goods that are produced domes- t i c a l l y, i n c l u d i ng some tex t i le products (however, waiv- ers may be granted in order to meet the needs of industry or to ob ta in supp l ies of foods tu f fs ); and (2) all other goods. In p r in c ip l e, impor ts mu st come direct from the coun t ry of o r ig in, w i t h o ut the in terven t ion of any foreign f i rm; the M i n i s t ry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the au tho r i ty, however, to permit certain goods to be imported from coun t r ies other than the country of origin. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution All imports, except those va lued at less than LS 2,000 (LS 500 for imports from Lebanon) require licenses which must be obtained by the importer prior to the date of shipment of the goods. Operations of the s ta te- trad ing agencies are governed by the annual foreign exchange budget. On the basis of the budge t, these agencies subm it documentation on their import requ iremen ts to the Ministry of Economy and the customs au thor i t ies, and import licenses are au toma t ica l ly issued. Certain imports (not appearing in the list of prohibited imports) from I raq, Jo rdan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are exempt from license, in accordance w i th the Arab Common Market Agreement. In such cases an au thor iza- tion to import is granted in response to a w r i t ten request. For the private sector, importers are en t i t led to import specified raw materials, capital goods, consumer goods, and spare parts. A noninterest-bearing advance import deposit is required in order to obtain an import license; the deposits are at rates of 10 percent, 50 percent, and 70 percent of import va lue. The 10 percent rate of deposit applies to imports of foodstuffs, pharmaceutical and chemical products, and raw materials; deposits of 50 percent are required for imports of construction materials, mach inery, and office equ ipmen t; and the 70 percent deposit rate applies to all other produc ts. Licenses to import specified items that no rma l ly are prohibited (certain l u x u ry consumer goods), up to a value of LS 70,000 in a 12-month period, are granted on request to merchants certified by the Chamber of Commerce and the M in i s t ry of Supp ly and In te rnal Trade and whose names appear on the l ist of payers of income tax published by the Ministry of Finance. No licenses are required for imports in th is category where the value does not exceed LS 2,000 an item a mon th. Foreign currency accounts may be debited freely for import paymen ts, provided that a license is ob ta ined, when necessary. There are l im i ted import fac i l i t ies for travelers arriving from abroad. There is a tax of 2 percent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, inc lud ing raw ma te r ia ls, petro- leum, and petroleum products. In add i t ion, there is a unified import surcharge, wh ich has replaced all the previous special levies on imports (a s ta t is t ical tax, a consumption tax, a defense t ax, a school t ax, a mar i t ime transport tax, and a harbor t a x ). Payments for v i r tu a l ly all imports by the pub l ic sector are made at the off ic ial market rate by letters of credit; payments for all imports by the pr iva te sector are made at the parallel market rate and are all requ ired to be settled by letters of cred i t. The importer subm i ts the import license and the pro forma invo ice to the Commerc ial Bank of Syria, wh ich then opens the letter of credit. Approval by the Exchange Office is not required. Insurance for imports under documen ta ry credit and most private sector imports must be effected loca l ly. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for inv i s ib les mu st be made at the SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC para l lel market rate wh i le trade-related transactions of the pub l ic sector and certain other specified paymen ts are made at the off ic ial market rate. Both residents and non res iden ts may free ly take out foreign bank notes. Res iden ts t rave l ing abroad may also take w i th them other foreign exchange purchased at the parallel market rate as fo l lows: for travel to Lebanon, the equ iva lent of LS 200 a t r ip; for travel to Jo rdan, LS 500 a t r ip; for travel to other A rab coun t r ies (except A lge r ia, the L ibyan Arab Jamah i r iya, Morocco, and Tunisia) and to Cyprus and Tu rkey, LS 2,500 a t r ip; and for travel to other countries ( i n c l u d i ng A lger ia, the L ibyan Arab Jamah i r iya, Morocco, and Tun i s i a ), the equ iva lent of LS 5,000 a t r ip. For ch i ld ren ten years old or younge r, the allow- ances are 50 percent of these amoun ts. Workers on secondment to a fore ign coun t ry may take w i th them fore ign exchange equ iv a l ent to 25 percent of the above- men t ioned a l loca t ions and the entire amount of the a l loca t ions on produc t ion of proof that they have transferred fore ign exchange from abroad. For travel to payments agreement countries, 50 percent of the travel a l loca t ion must be taken up th rough the clearing account concerned (30 percent for travel on o f f ic ial bus iness ). On depa r tu re, res iden ts of Sy r ian n a t ion a l i ty mu st pay an ex it tax of LS 100 or LS 200 a person if t rave l ing to Arab countries and LS 500 a person for other des t ina t ions. Fixed a l loca t ions are ma in ta ined for other transactions in inv i s ib l e s, as fo l lows: 60 percent of the salaries received by fore ign techn ic ians and experts employed in the Sy r ian A rab R epub l i c; 50 percent of the salaries of personnel of fore ign d ip loma t ic and in terna t ional mis- sions in the Syrian Arab Repub l ic; up to LS 3,000 a s tockho lder a year for d iv idends accru ing to nonres iden ts from Syrian secur i t ies; and LS 250 a person for private dona t ions and cha r i t ie s. In all cases, applications for add i t ional amoun ts mu st be subm i t ted to the Exchange O f f ice. Non res iden ts l e av ing the coun t ry are permitted to take out LS 100 in Syrian cu r rency, and residents LS 25. No app rova ls are gran ted for add i t ional amoun ts. Non- residents leav ing the coun try are allowed to reconvert Syrian cu r rency into fore ign exchange up to the equ iva- lent of LS 500 upon show ing ev idence of hav ing purchased the currency from an off ic ial dealer. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wh e a t, ba r ley, co t ton, cottonseed, and the ir d e r iv a t iv es are na t iona l ized and are made by the Cereals O f f ice or the Cotton A u t h o r i t y. Exports of petroleum are hand led by the Pe t ro leum Ma rke t ing Off ice. Exports of cer ta in o ther commod i t ies also are reserved for govern- ment agenc ies, s ta te- trad ing agencies, or specified com- pan ies. Exports of a few goods to all coun tr ies and all exports to Egyp t, Is rae l, and Sou th Africa are proh ib i ted. Exports of certain products and of all goods of foreign origin requ i re l icenses. For all other exports, licenses are not requ i red. For most expor ts, however, a repatriation comm i tment is requ ired by wh ich the exporter under- takes to b r ing the proceeds to the Syrian Arab Repub l ic and su r render them to the Commerc ial Bank of Syria 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC w i th in six mon ths after the date of export. The proceeds of exports must be surrendered at the o f f ic ial market rate, except that specified percentages of certain com- modities exported by both the pub l ic and pr iva te sectors must be surrendered at the parallel market ra te .2 The Commercial Bank of Syria may accept prepayments for exports of Syrian products by residents and nonres iden ts w i thout referring to the Central Bank of Sy r ia. Certain manufac tured exports receive subsidies from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Indus t r ial Products. Exports of f ru i t s, vegetables, and o l ives, and crude oil and its derivatives are subject to an export tax of 12 percent ad valorem. Exports of other ag r icu l tu ral products are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 9 percent p lus 3 per m i ll when exported by sea. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions by the pub l ic sector mu st be sold at the o f f ic ial market rate, but those from transactions by the pr iva te sector mu st be sold at e i ther the parallel market rate or the tou r ist market ra te, according to the na ture of the t ransac t ion. Nonres iden ts entering the Syrian Arab Repub l ic are permitted to b r ing in un l im i ted foreign exchange in any form. Foreign bank notes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresi- dents. There is no l im it on the amount of Syrian bank notes that may be brought into the coun try by res iden ts and nonresidents. Capital All inward and ou tward capital t rans fe rs by the pub l ic sector take place at the o f f ic ial market rate, w h i le transactions by the private sector are determined by the Exchange Office of the Central Bank on a case-by-case basis. Imports of private funds in the form of fore ign exchange are free for private ind iv idua l s, whether residents or nonres iden ts. The export of cap i tal requ i res the approval of the Exchange Off ice, as does most 2The percentages requ ired to be surrendered at the p a r a l l el m a r k et rate are as fo l lows ( the rema inder be ing at the o f f i c i al ra te ): t e x t i l es (40-60 percen t), eng in e e r ing and ch em i c al p roduc ts (30-70 p e r c en t ), and ag r i cu l tu r al products (30-50 pe rcen t ). The su r render r a t ios in o ther cases are de te rm ined on a commod i ty -by - commod i ty ba s i s. borrowing abroad. Order No. 265 of June 10, 1970 provides special fac i l i t ies for the inves tment of funds of imm ig ran ts and of na t iona ls of Arab states in the economic deve lopment of the Syr ian Arab Repub l ic. Inv e s tm ent guarantee agreements have been signed w i th France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, and the Un i ted States. Immovab le property in the Syrian Arab Repub l ic may not (w i thout prior approval) be acquired by nonresidents or foreign nationals other than resident Arab na t iona ls. Gold Res iden ts may ho ld, acqu i re, and sell gold in the Syrian Arab Republic w i thout restriction. Domestic transac t ions in gold take place at free market prices that are in l ine w i th free market prices abroad. Imports of gold are exempt from import l icens ing, but exports are subject to l i c en s ing. Proceeds from exports by residents mu st be surrendered. Exports of gold previously im- ported by nonres iden ts out of the ir resources abroad are subject to a repa tr ia t ion comm i tm ent covering the cost of manu fac tu r ing and the profit earned. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments January 17. The M in i s t ry of Economy and External Commerce authorized the Bank of Syria to free certain deposits w h i ch had been made by pr iva te sector import- ers before September 25, 1982. January 29. Au thor iza t ion was granted for importa- t ion of the fo l low ing products: detergents for use in d i s hw a s h i ng m a ch in e s, parts for electronic calculators, onyx for scu lp tu re and j ew e l ry, up to annu al l im i ts specified for i n d i v i d u al impo r t ing enterprises by the M i n i s t ry of I n d u s t r y. Exports and Export Proceeds August 6. Private sector industrial and manufacturing f i rms were au thor ized to retain in special accounts at the Commerc ial Bank of Syr ia up to 50 percent of their export proceeds; such accoun ts would be debited for paymen ts for the ir impor ts of raw ma te r ia ls. 464 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tanzania is the Tanzan ia Sh i l l ing. On January 20, 1979, the f ixed re la t ionsh ip of the Tanzan ia shilling to the SDR was d iscon t inued and the Tanzan ia shilling was pegged to a basket of currenc ies of Tan- zan ia's main trading partners. The Bank of Tanzan ia quotes daily buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar. Effective June 6, 1983 the Bank of Tanzan ia changed the central rate of the sh i l l ing aga inst the U . S. dollar from T Sh 9.743 - US$1 to T Sh 12 .17875 = US$1. The buying and selling rates for other cu r renc ie sl are deter- mined on the basis of appropriate cross rates in interna- tional markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has delegated the adm in is t ra- tion of exchange control to the Bank of Tanzania. In principle, authority for mak ing paymen ts abroad should be delegated by the Bank of Tanzan ia to the two authorized banks, the Na t ional Bank of Commerce and the People's Bank of Zanzibar. In practice, v i r tua l ly all outward payments have to be approved by the Bank of Tanzania; control over exchange operations in Zanz ibar is exercised by the People's Bank of Zanz iba r. On the ma in land, import control is adm in is tered by the Imports Controller in the Bank of Tanzan ia and export control by the Exports Controller in the M in i s t ry of Trade. The Bank of Tanzania acts as the registrar of exporters. The respons ib i l i ty for issu ing specific import and export licenses rests w i th the Controllers, to whom applications must be subm i t ted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before import orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Zanzibar adm in is te rs an independent system of foreign trade controls th rough a Board of Trade; all imports and the principal exports are effected by the state-trading agencies (B izan je and the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation). Prescription of Currency Settlements between residents of Tanzan ia and non- residents must be made either in conver t ib le currencies or in Tanzania sh i l l ings by debit or credit to a Convert- ible Nonresident Account or Loro Accoun t. Nonresident Accounts Accounts maintained by foreign na t iona ls temporar i ly resident in Tanzan ia, f i rm s, companies or other organ i- zations registered or incorporated outside Tanzan ia, Au s t ra l ian do l la rs, A u s t r i an s c h i l l i n g s, B e lg i an f ranc s, C an ad i an do l lars, Dan i sh kroner, deu tsche ma rk, French f r a n c s, I n d i an rupees, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese y e n, K eny an s h i l l i n g s, M a l awi kw a c h a, Mozam- bique me t ica is, Ne the r lands g u i l d e r s, No rw eg i an k rone r, P ak i s t an rupees, pounds s t e r l i n g, Swed i sh k rono r, Sw iss f r an c s, Ug anda s h i l l i n g s, Zamb ian kw a ch a, and Z imbabwe do l l a r s. foreign d ip loma t ic m iss ions, the Un i ted Na t ions or other in te rna t ional organizations and the ir officials in Tanzania are designated as nonresident accounts. Accounts ma in- tained by nonres ident Tanzan ian nationals and foreign na t iona ls, who were norma l ly resident in Tanzania and have become non res iden ts, are also treated as nonresi- dent accounts. Nonres ident accounts are broadly d iv ided into two categories: convertible and nonconvertible. Balances on convertible accounts are e l ig ib le for transfer from Tan- zan ia w i thout any fu r ther scru t iny of, or approval by, the Bank of Tanzan ia. Balances on nonconver t ib le accounts may be trans- ferred from Tanzan ia af ter ob ta in ing approval from the Bank of Tanzan ia. In total, there are six subcategories of nonres ident accoun ts, n am e ly, Ex te rna l, Shipping/ A i r l i n e, Spec ia l, O rd ina ry, Expa tr ia te, and Unspec if ied. Tanzanian nationals and foreign nationals normally resident in Tanzan ia, who have proceeded abroad on vaca t ion, emp loymen t, or for other purposes may ma in- ta in both Special and Ord inary Accoun ts in the form of a cu r ren t, sav ings, or deposit account, according to the option of the account holders. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South A f r ica are prohibited. Some imports in to the m a in l and from any source may be proh ib i ted for reasons of health or security. Certain goods listed in the Import Control Notice of April 18, 1980, k n own as Open General License, are not being licensed; they may be free ly imported, irrespective of coun try of o r ig in, wh i le other goods not listed require specific l icenses. A sem iannual fore ign exchange plan provides for ind ica t ive foreign exchange allocations for goods to be imported subject to specific licenses. A l though manu fac tu re rs are permitted to import many goods d i rec t ly, the importation of specified goods is restricted to cen tra l ized import agencies. Unless specif- ica l ly exempted by the Bank of Tanzania, ind iv idual cons ignmen ts of imports amoun t ing to T Sh 20,000 or above are subject to compulsory preshipment inspection for q u a n t i t y, q u a l i t y, and price comparison by the Societe Generate de Surveillance (SGS) of Geneva, acting as agent for the Government of Tanzania. All merchand ise imports by the ma in land must be insured w i th the Na t ional Insu rance Corporation of Tanzania un less exempted by the Bank of Tanzan ia, and prem iums must be paid in Tanzania sh i l l ing s. All imports into Zanzibar are made by B izan je. Most imports, irrespec- tive of their origin, are subject to sales tax at rates rang ing up to 50 percent of the c . i . f. va lue p lus import du ty. (Th is tax is also payable on sales of domestic p roduc ts .) There are arrears in respect of import paymen ts. 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA Payments for Invisibles Payments for inv is ib les to all coun tr ies are controlled and require the approval of the Bank of Tanzan ia. Noncitizens working in Tanzania under contract in salaried employment and w i th a firm comm i tment to leave Tanzania even tua l ly may rem it abroad, th roughout their period of emp loymen t, up to one th ird of the ir mon th ly salary to cover fam i ly ma in tenance, sav ings, etc. Applications to remit in excess of one th ird of salary, or in excess of T Sh 3,000 a mon th, are considered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzan ia. The basic exchange allocations for tourist travel are no longer being granted. Family remittances by residents to relatives abroad have also been term ina ted. Res ident travelers are allowed to take out T Sh 100 in domestic currency. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes, trave ler's checks, and letters of credit for any amount rema in ing out of the foreign exchange they brought in. Certain paymen ts for inv is ib les are in arrears. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. On the ma in land, exports of products handled by state-trading organizations and exports of certain other products are subject to controls and, if there is a local shortage, may be restricted. Exports for sale cannot be effected w i thout an export license. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Exporters are required to be registered w i th the Bank of Tanzania and must ma in ta in an account w i th a local commercial bank. Export proceeds must be collected in convertible currencies w i th in two months from the date of exportation. However, on application to the Bank of Tanzania this period may be extended. Export proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank upon the ir collection. There is an export rebate scheme under wh i ch export- ers may claim rebates vary ing from 5 percent to 20 percent of the f .o .b. price of exports, depend ing on the commodities invo lved. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from inv is ib les must be sold to an au thor ized bank upon collection. Travelers may freely b r ing in convertible foreign currency notes; a re tu rn ing traveler may bring in Tanzania sh i l l ing notes and coins exported on departure, up to T Sh 100. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to control by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted; all cap i tal transfers require ind iv idual exchange control approval. 466 Persons leaving Tanzania permanently for settlement abroad, as a ru le, w i ll not be granted foreign exchange fac i l i t ie s. When, however, any person is unab le to ma in ta in himself and his dependents and has no osten- sible means of livelihood in Tanzania, limited foreign exchange facilities may be granted by the Bank of Tanzania purely on compassionate grounds. G if ts to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzan ia. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tanzan ia, but to ensure eventual repatriation the investment should be recognized by the Bank of Tan- zan ia and a certificate of its status as an approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Investment (Protec- t ion) Ac t, 1963 should be obtained from the M in is try of Finance. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase of Tanzanian securities by nonresidents from residents, provided that payment is received in foreign exchange. The income from such securities is rem i t tab le, as are the proceeds from resale. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania by residents are not permitted. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresidents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require approval by the Bank of Tanzan ia. Gold A commemorative gold coin is legal tender but does not c ircu la te w i t h in Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzan ia for num isma t ic purposes. W i th th is excep t ion, residents other than the monetary au thor i t ies and authorized indus t r ial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form, other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form, other than jewe lry constitut- ing the personal effects of a traveler, are subject to ind iv idu al l icens ing by the Bank of Tanzania. Import licenses for gold jewe l ry are issued by the Bank of Tanzan ia and are ava i lab le to goldsmiths on ly. Licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au thor i t ies, indus tr ial users, and producers of new ly mined gold; imports are l im i ted to an overall import quo ta. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement June 6. The central rate for the Tanzan ian shil- l ing was changed from T Sh 9.743 = US$1 to T Sh 12 .17875 = US$1, representing a devaluation of 20 percent in terms of the U .S. do l lar. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Thailand is the Thai Bah t. The external value of the baht is determined on the basis of the relationship of the baht to a weighted basket of currencies of Tha i land's major trading partners as well as other considerations; the we igh t ing reflects the shares of trade as well as the currencies used in paymen ts. The Exchange Equalization Fund announces daily the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, for transactions between itself and commercial banks; it also announces daily m in imum buy ing and max imum selling rates that commercial banks must observe when dealing with the pub l ic in deutsche ma rk, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Ma lays ian r ingg i t, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, and U . S. dollars. On December 31, 1983 the middle off ic ial rate was B 23.0 = US$1. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the M in is try of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to autho- rized agents ( i . e ., authorized banks and authorized companies1) and to authorized persons. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All outgoing payments are subject to approval (given auto- matically for bona fide commercial transactions and other current payments); certain inward capital transfers may also be subject to approval, upon prescription by Ministerial No t i f ica t ion .2 Imports of gold require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the currency to be used for settlements w i th foreign coun- tries; most payments are made in U .S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident baht accounts: Transferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In princi- ple, transfers of baht to and from nonresident accounts require approval; there are exemptions, however, for nonresident accounts of foreign diplomatic entities, international organizations based in Tha i land, and Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds from sales to authorized banks of foreign currency transferred from abroad, w i th amounts transferred from other Transfer- able Accoun ts, and w i th funds eligible for remittance 'No authorized company existed by end-1983. 2No such no t if ica t ion has yet been issued. abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transferable Accounts are convertible into foreign currency at any time and may be debited freely for the purchase of foreign currencies for transfer abroad, for transfers to other Transferable Accounts, for payments in respect of exports, and for any other payments to residents. Funds that must be credited to Blocked Accounts include proceeds of installment sales of books, rentals accruing in Thailand, freight in transit trade, proceeds from sales of assets of emigrating residents of Thai na t iona l i ty, and funds that are not eligible for credit to a Transferable Accoun t. Transfers of baht from Blocked Accounts for the purchase of foreign currency, except for certain current payments, are subject to approval by the Bank of Thailand; approval is granted when no capital transfer on behalf of a Thai national is invo lved. In addition to the above, the Bank of Thailand encourages nonresidents to place foreign currency de- posits w i th commercial banks in Tha i land. No restric- tions are placed on the opening of a foreign currency account as long as the funds originate abroad. Balances on such accounts may be transferred w i thout forma l i ty or restrictions. A commercial bank may pay interest on such deposits at competitive rates. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported free ly, but import licenses are required for some commodities, and the import of certain other items is prohibited for protective and other reasons. All imports of goods originating in or shipped from South Africa are subject to licensing. Imports of tea leaf, tea dus t, and skimmed milk are subject to a requirement that the importer purchase a proportionate quan t i ty of the same type of goods pro- duced in Thailand. Payments for imports may be approved by authorized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Thailand, which is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance payments in excess of US$2,000 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit with an expiry date exceeding nine mon ths. Importers must ob ta in, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" from an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 20,000 in value can be cleared through customs; m i l i tary equ ipment imported by the M in is try of Defense and certain minor categories of imports are exempt from th is requirement. Certain goods are subject to temporary import surcharges. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. Payments for invis- ibles require authorization, which is usually given by an authorized bank or otherwise by the Bank of Tha i land. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Cargo insurance prem iums due to foreign insurers may be remitted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or a branch office of an insu rance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income after taxes. The transfer of prof i ts and d iv idends is permitted freely by the Bank of Tha i land. Apart from foreign travel, fam i ly ma in tenance abroad, and educa- tional expenses abroad, authorized agents are permitted to approve applications for exchange w i t h o ut suppor t ing documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of US$140. Au thor ized persons are allowed to sell foreign currency notes to other persons in an amount not exceeding US$250 a person a mon th. In the case of a foreign tourist w i sh ing to convert baht into foreign currency notes, the authorized person may exceed the above l im i t s. For persons traveling abroad for p leasure or personal business trips, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equ iv a l ent of US$700 for trips of less than 7 days, or US$100 a day for t r ips of more than 7 days but not exceeding 20 days for trips w i th visas, or not exceeding 10 days for trips w i t h o ut v isas; for business or off ic ial trave l, US$140 a day is a l lowed, and additional foreign exchange not exceeding US$60 a day may be obtained in certain cases for en te r ta inment expenses. For fam i ly rem i t tance s, au tho r ized banks may sell US$200 a month to each transferor for Europe and the United States and US$150 a mon th for other countries. Amoun ts above these l im i ts are approved by the Bank of Tha i land upon ve r i f ica t ion. A person may take out local currency not exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a fam i ly traveling on one passport) or foreign currency not exceeding US$250 (US$500 for a f am i ly traveling on one passport) w i thout the prior approval of the exchange control au thor i t ies. Transit passengers and tourists may take out w i thout prior au tho r i z a t ion the ir own foreign means of paymen t, or fore ign secu r i t ie s, or foreign bank notes and coin of a va lue not exceeding US$2,000 or such h igher amount as they may have declared in w r i t ing upon en t ry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Afr ica are subject to l icens ing. Certain categories of exports are subject to l i c e n s i n g, and in a few cases to prior approval, irrespective of des t ina- t ion .3 All other commodities may be exported f r e e ly, except to South A f r ica. Se t t lement for exports of s i lver exceeding US$5,000 in va lue must be made th rough irrevocable letters of credit. The exporter is requ i red to obtain a "certificate of exportation" from an au tho r ized agent in order to clear the sh ipment th rough cus toms where shipments of tin or rubber exceed B 2,000 in va lue and, w i th m inor excep t ions, where exports of other goods exceed B 20,000 in va lue. Export proceeds must be collected and must be sold to an authorized agent w i t h in 7 days of rece ip t; they mu st be surrendered w i th in 15 days from the date of export if payment is made by letter of cred i t, 21 days if a sight b i ll is d rawn for co l lec t ion, 15 days af ter the due date of a usance b i l l, or 15 days for o ther me thods of p aym en t, but in any case not la ter than 180 days af ter the date of expor t .4 Foreign tour is ts may free ly take out precious stones and gold or p l a t i n um ornamen ts or other articles up to any va lue. The export of most types of rice and rice products and of sugar is subject to export levies referred to as export p r em i um s. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from inv i s ib les mu st be sold to an au tho r ized agen t. Au tho r ized persons are allowed to pu rchase fo re ign currency notes and coin or traveler's checks payab le in fore ign currenc ies, but the latter must be resold to au tho r ized b ank s. No person may br ing into Tha i land local currency exceed ing B 2,000 w i thout a permit (or B 4,000 for a fam i ly traveling on one passpor t). Trave lers may b r ing in any amount in foreign notes and co in. Capital A ll ou twa rd t rans fe rs of cap i ta l, inc lud ing p rem iums on l i fe in su rance po l ic ies, by res iden ts or nonresidents are subject to approva l. Personal capital exports by res iden ts are res t r ic ted. The Bank of Tha i land approves the rem i t tance of dona t ions and g i f ts of a reasonable amoun t. Foreign exchange from inwa rd capital move- ments must be sold to an authorized agent and the purpose of the t ran s fer mu st be declared. Foreign inve s tmen ts in Tha i land may be accorded p re fe ren t ial t rea tment under the Investment Promotion Act B .E. 2520 ( issued on Ap r il 29, 1977); th is treatment inc ludes a gua ran tee of the t rans fer abroad of current net ea rn ings and of cap i tal repa t r ia t ion. The repatriation of other c ap i t al is considered on the merits of each case; approval is no rm a l ly granted if it can be shown that the f u n ds o r ig ina ted abroad. Certain economic activities are reserved for Thai na t iona l s. The con trac t ing of suppliers' credits abroad requires approval by the Bank of Tha i land. All other private loans taken up abroad may be registered w i th the Bank to f a c i l i t a te approval of ou twa rd rem i t tances. The Foreign Debt Comm i t tee m u st approve ex ternal borrowing by the pub l ic sector. Gold Re s iden ts may ho ld and negotiate domestically gold j ew e l r y, gold co in, and unwo rked gold. Purchases or sales of gold on commod i ty fu tu r es exchanges are p roh ib i ted. Impor ts and exports of gold other than 3These inc lude go ld, p l a t i n u m, prec ious s tones, l i ve c a t t le and o ther specified an im a l s, co f fee, so rghum, corn, a ll types of sug a r, brass and copper in certain fo rms, iron scrap and most fo rms of i ron o ther t h an pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and B u d d ha image s. T e x t i le expor ts to certain markets are also sub ject to l i c e n s i n g. 4U n d er a r e g u l a t i on in t roduced on J a n u a ry 3, 1984 exporters r e c e i v i ng r e d i s c o u nt f i n a n c i ng from the B ank of Th a i l and a re required to se ll fo rw a rd to comm e r c i al banks t h e ir fo re ign exchange receipts, and the b a n ks a re in t u rn r e q u i r ed to se ll fo rwa rd such fo re ign exchange to t h e ir cu s tom e rs or in the in t e rb ank m a rk e t. 468 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution jewelry are subject to the following arrangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities: commercial imports of gold in any form are restricted and require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance; for gold bullion, the Ministry periodically fixes an authorized quan t i ty of imports. A bidding system operates under which the importer offering the highest premium by tender is awarded a license as sole importer of the authorized quan t i ty for a certain period. In addition to this prem ium, wh ich accrues to the Govern- ment, the importer is required to pay to the M in i s t ry of Finance a fee at the rate of 2 percent of the c . i . f. value of the gold. Foreign tourists may take out gold ornaments up to any value. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited; traders' exports of gold ornaments exceeding B 5,000 in value require a certificate of exportation for presentation to the customs, but they are free of export du ty or taxes. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments a. Quantitative Import Controls January 11. Authorization was granted for five com- panies to import palm oil dur ing Janua ry —Ap r i l, 1983. January 12. A quota was introduced on the importa- tion during the first half of 1983 of single cy l inder diesel engines with displacement volume of 331 to 1,100 cubic centimeters. March 3. Authorization was granted for imports of 15,000 tons of ju te between March 1 and August 31, 1983. March 30. Licenses were introduced for imports of skimmed m i lk, requiring importers to buy fresh m i lk from local producers on a one-to-one basis w i th imports. April 16. Imports of fork l if ts we igh ing more than 10 tons, concrete m ix ing trucks, and crane trucks, hitherto permitted by the Customs Department w i thout prior clearance w i th the Ministry of Commerce, were made subject to licensing. April 19. Imports of palm oil were limited to 6,943 metric tons and 5,951 metric tons during the period May —August and September —December, 1983, respectively. April 21. Authorization was granted for imports of ceramic tableware and porcelain and chinaware (includ- ing biscuit porcelain and parian) for local first-class hotels receiving promotion from the Board of Investment. August 10. In an amendment of the regulations on imports of skimmed milk powder, dairy firms were required to buy raw milk from local producers at a ratio of 10 units to 1 un it of imported milk powder. August 15. Imports of single cylinder diesel engines with displacement of 331 to 1,100 cubic centimeters, were placed under quota for the second half of 1983. September 2. Licensing requirements were introduced for imports of sodium borate, sodium biborate, sodium tetraborate, sodium pyroborate, borax and boric acid, boracic acid, orthoboric acid, and borofax. THAILAND September 7. Licensing requirements were introduced for imports of television cabinets, including parts and components; eligible importers would be limited to licensed assemblers of television sets, and permissible imports would be limited to television cabinets which could not yet be manufactured locally. September 17. Regulations on imports of onions were revised such that imports would be allowed only under conditions of a sharp increase in price or shortage of domestic supp ly. October 11. Authorization was granted to users for imports of used special trucks such as concrete mixers, crane trucks, and fo rk l i ft trucks weighing more than 4 tons. October 12. Authorization was granted to vegetable oil producers for imports of soybean oil, subject to presentation of irrevocable letters of credit to the M in is try of Commerce for approval. November 9. Authorization was granted for imports of 4,804 pounds of onions from the United States up to December 31, 1983. November 18. Authorization was granted for imports of 600 tons of onions up to November 30, 1983. December 27. Government departments or charitable ins t i tu t ions receiving contribution from foreign agencies were authorized to import wa lk ing tractors of the "BC" type. December 29. A licensing requirement was imposed on imports of capsicum chemicals. December 29. Authorization was granted for imports of palm oil dur ing January-June, 1984 for use as raw materials. b. Import Surcharges and Import Taxation January 1. The surcharge of 0.5 percent on all imports was abolished. August 31. The import tariff on electrical line tele- phonic and telegraphic apparatus, inc lud ing such appa- ratus for carrier-current line systems, was increased from 5 percent to 30 percent. November 16. The import duty on television sets was increased from 40 percent to 50 percent. November 29. The excise tax on imported whiskey and brandy was increased from B 30 to B 40 a liter. November 29. Import duties on machinery and equip- ment were reduced by ha l f, while duties on equipment and machinery for aircraft maintenance, and shipbuild- ing and repair were waived. In addition, the import duty on glass was increased from B 2.50 to B 9.50 a kilogram, and the du ty on imported timber was cut from 10 percent to 1 percent. c. Other Measures Affecting Import Payments September 30. Permission was granted for authorized dealers to approve purchases of foreign exchange for import paymen ts of up to B 20,000, and for advance paymen ts of up to B 2,000 for imports. December 26. Commercial banks were required to l im it for one year from November 1983 the opening of 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND letters of credit for non-oil imports to amoun ts not exceeding the previous year's level; in par t icu lar, they were requested to restrain the opening of letters of credit for imports of luxu ry goods. Exports and Export Proceeds January 1. The rebate scheme for Hong Kong import- ers of Thai rice was increased. January 11. Exports of Buddha statues and canned pineapple were legalized on condition that prior approval and export certificates be obtained from the Department of Fine Arts and the Association of Food Processors, respectively, for the two sets of items. February 22. A requirement was introduced that exporters should buy coffee beans directly from local growers and export coffee to member countries of the International Coffee Organization (ICO) at a ratio of one and a half un i ts to one un it of such exports. Licenses would, however, be given to exporters presenting docu- mentary evidence showing that they had exported coffee to non-ICO and ICO markets in the ratio of 0.5:1. March 15. Permission was granted for free exports of maize to Taiwanf during the 1982/83 season. April 1. Exports of cattle were allowed, provided approval from the Livestock Department had been received. April 27. Free exports of cotton were allowed. June 13. Control on exports of cotton seeds and kapok seeds was l i f ted. July 1. Free exports of detergent were allowed. July 1. It was decided that maize exports for 1983/84 season could be traded free ly, but that exporters should submit references on their transactions to the Foreign Trade Department (FTD). July 11. The m in imum f .o .b. export price of longan during the 1983 season was set at B 27 a k i logram. July 16. A regulation was introduced, requ i r ing ex- porters of textile products to the Un i ted States to seek prior permission from the FTD. July 17. Free exports of red bamboo beans were allowed. July 21. Permission was granted for exports of w i ld animals, but only by the authorized exporters licensed by the Department of Forestry. July 22. Coffee exporters were required to buy coffee beans from local growers and to export coffee to the ICO member countries at a ratio of 1.75:1 for exports du r ing January-March 1984; in add i t ion, they were required to combine their exports to non-ICO and ICO markets in the ratio of 0.75:1. July 27. It was announced that exporters of trousers and coveralls should present export documen ts by August 10, 1983, and that the FTD wou ld stop issu ing export licenses by Ju ly 27, 1983. July 29. In a revision of regu la t ions under the Thai- U .S. Textile Agreement exporters of 22 categories of textile products, in order to obtain export perm iss ion, tSee Explanatory Note on Coverage of Part Two page 52. 470 were required to submit letters of credit from their importers w i th in 21 days of receiving export quotas; for other categories of tex t i les, exporters could apply for export licenses and textile visas w i thout receiving quota allocation. August 1. Regulations on garment exports to Sweden were extended in accordance w i th the four-month exten- sion of the Thailand-Sweden Textile Agreement. August 3. The M in i s t ry of Finance reduced from 5 percent to 1 percent the duties on exports of wood products convertible for other uses. August 30. Exports of rock phosphate w i th less than 25 percent phosphate content were extended for one year. September 7. Tin royalty rates were reduced effec- t ive ly from a range of 0-60 percent of posted price to a range of 0-40 percent through wider slabs and lower rates. September 17. Off ic ial controls were lifted on six groups of exports (cooking vegetable oil, wood-free paper, newspr in ts and k ra ft papers, rice, sorghum, and pa lm o i l ). September 17. Au thor iza t ion was granted for govern- ment agencies and pr iva te f irms to export timber sup- plied from the ir own p lan ta t ions; exporters should, however, obtain prior permission from the Department of Forestry before forward ing export applications to the FTD. September 28. The International Tin Council in- troduced quotas on members' tin export, inc lud ing the fo l low ing quotas for Thailand: Quota Period October 1-December 31, 1982 J anu a ry 1-March 21, 1983 April 1-June 30, 1983 Ju ly 1-September 30, 1983 October 1-December 31, 1983 Quota Volume (Metric Tons) 4,768 4,775 4,775 4,528 4,528 October 3. The rice export p rem ium applicable to wh i te rice of the grades of (a) 100 percent and 5 percent; (b) 10 percent and 15 percent; and (c) 20 percent, 25 percent, 35 percent, and 45 percent was cut from B 400, B 350, and B 250, respectively, to B 200, B 175, and B 125, respectively, a metric ton. October 5. Permission was granted under stipulated cond i t ions for exports of 470,000 pieces of trousers and coveralls to Canada du r ing Janua ry 1 —December 31, 1983. October 12. O f f ic ial controls were lifted on exports of a specified range of items, inc lud ing detergents, coconut was te, and rice bran waste, ready made animal feed, kenaf scraps, cemen t, orchids, all types of beans, gunny sack s, and ju te products. November 1. Permission was granted for additional exports of tex t i le products to the United States and the European commun i t ies provided that applications were ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND made during November 1-7 and December 1-7, and shipments were effected before the end of 1983. November 3. Permission was granted for exporters other than garment manufacturers to apply for export quotas to bilateral textile agreement countries. December 14. A quota was placed on the export of coats and jackets to Canada dur ing January 1, 1983- December 31, 1986. Capital January 21. The exemption from the w i thho ld ing tax on interest payments on foreign loans, or ig ina l ly sched- uled to end at December 31, 1982, was extended to June 30, 1983 for loans w i th maturities of more than 12 mon ths. July 1. The above-mentioned exemption from the withholding tax was further extended to June 30, 1984, but on ly for foreign loans w i th maturities of more than 24 months. August 29. Special government bonds bearing 5 per- cent interest rate and w i th a 10-year maturity were issued for a period up to the end of fiscal year 1983 in B 1 mil- lion denominations in an amount not exceeding B 100 m i l l ion; they were offered for subscription to for- eign investors in tend ing to invest and reside in Thailand. 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Togo is the CFA Franc ,1 wh ich is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA f ranc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per m i ll on transfers from countries outside the West Afr ican Mone- tary Union and one of 2.50 per mill on transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Un ion, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and the repatriation of export proceeds, Togo's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Ben in, Cameroon, the Central African Repub l ic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, N iger, Senegal, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the M in is try of Economy and Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries and the BCEAO. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the banks, financial ins t i tu t ions, the Postal Administration, and offices of government minis- tries, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport, except those for gold, which are granted by the M in is try of Economy and Finance. 'The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Quest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Ben in, Ivory Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta. 2Transfers between member countries of the Union are subject to the flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. 472 Prescription of Currency Since Togo is an Operations Account country, settle- ments w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French f rancs, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun t ry. Current payments in relation to The Gamb ia, Ghana, Gu inea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mau- r i tan ia, N iger ia, and Sierra Leone are normally effected through the West African Clearing House. Settlements w i th all other countries are usua l ly effected through correspondent banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries, or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account is not permitted, except for credits to Foreign Accounts held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks, which may be credited w i th BCEAO bank notes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Lome by those correspondents. Foreign Accounts in Francs may also be debited, without authorization, with BCEAO bank notes mailed by authorized intermediaries to their foreign correspondents through the BCEAO agency in Lome. Imports and Import Payments All imports of South African origin are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely, but require the prior authorization of the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Commerce and Transport when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more and are for commercial purposes. Imports from all other coun- tries require ind iv idual import licenses when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more. In principle, the licenses are granted in accordance with an import program estab- lished each year; as ye t, however, the program has not been established, and almost all requests for import licenses, irrespective of the origin of the goods are granted. There is no formal free list. The issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin is conditional, in principle, on the purchase of a specified quan t i ty of the local product; in practice, this requirement is no longer enforced. The Societe Natio- nale de Commerce (SONACOM) has an import monopoly for sugar cubes, rice, f lour, canned m i lk, soap for household use, salt, tobacco and tobacco products, alcoholic beverages, corrugated iron, and concrete rein- forcement rods. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses entitle ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution importers to purchase the necessary exchange, spot, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documen- tary credit is opened, or on the due date of payment if the commodities already have been imported. Purchases of foreign exchange for down payment are subject to prior authorization by the Minister, wh ich is valid only from the date such payment is due and on ly for up to 30 per- cent of each transaction invo lv ing capital goods and 10 percent for other transactions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for inv is ib les to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for inv is ib les related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, d iv idends, and royalties are also generally permitted. For tourist travel, residents trave l ing to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for ch i ld ren under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 rema in ing after re turn to Togo must be surrendered w i th in eight days of re-en try. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a m a x im um of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreign national working in Togo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence perm i t, or work permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents may at any time and w i thout indicating the purpose of the transfer make payments abroad, through an authorized bank, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Resident and nonresident travelers to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account coun tr ies. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a country that is not a member of the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank notes and coin up to the amount declared by them on en t ry3 or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 175,000. Nonresident travelers may also free ly 3This amount is adjusted for ( 1) the amount of fo re ign cu r rency sold for CFA f rancs, and (2) any fore ign currency acqu ired in Togo by (a) debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a Foreign Account in Foreign Currency, (b) the convers ion of fore ign cu r rency t r av e l e r 's checks, e tc ., made out in the name of the t r av e l e r, and ( c) any repurchases of foreign currency (perm i t ted up to CFAF 175,000) w i th CFA francs resu l t ing from the sale of fo re ign c u r r e n c y. TOGO take out any amount of letters of credit and traveler's checks drawn in their names abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses. All exports to South Afr ica are p roh ib i ted. The Office Togolais des Phosphates (OTP) has a monopoly over the export of phosphates and the O f f ice des Produits Agricoles du Togo (OPAT) has a monopoly over the export of cacao, coffee, cotton, g roundnu t s, and certain other agricultural commodities. The due date for payment for exports to foreign coun tr ies, inc lud ing the French Franc Area, may not be later than 180 days af ter the arrival of the goods at the ir des t ina t ion, and the proceeds must be surrendered w i th in a month after the due date; authorized diamond pu rchas ing off ices, however, may retain foreign cur- rency proceeds in foreign currency accounts w i th autho- rized banks in Togo. All export transactions relating to foreign countries, inc lud ing the French Franc Area, must be dom ic i led w i th an au thor ized bank when their va lue exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from inv i s ib le transactions w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may be re ta ined. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, mu st be collected and surrendered w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may b r ing in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any in s t i tu te of issue m a in t a in ing an Opera- tions Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Residents bringing in fore ign bank notes and foreign currency t rave le r 's checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 must sell them to an authorized bank w i t h in eight days. Capital Capital movements between Togo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account coun tr ies are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance and are res tr ic ted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted f ree ly. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ iremen ts that may be app l icab le) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all ou tward inve s tmen t, over the i s su ing, advertis- ing, or offering for sale of fore ign securities in Togo, and over the so l ic i t ing of funds in Togo for p lac ing abroad. Such operations requ ire prior au thor iza t ion by the Minis- ter of Economy and F inance. Exempt from authoriza- t ion, however, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a gua ran tee from the Togolese Government and (2) shares that are identical w i th, or 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO may be substituted for, securities whose issu ing, adver- tising, or offer ing for sale in Togo has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these measures do not apply to relations w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, and the Operations Account countries. There also are special controls applicable to all countries other than Togo w i th respect to imports and exports of gold. All investments abroad by residents of Togo require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance;4 beg inn ing June 24, 1981 at least 75 percent of such investments must be f inanced by foreign borrow- ing. Foreign direct investments in Togo5 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The M in is ter has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration dur ing which he may request postponement of the projects. The total or partial l iqu ida t ion of any inward direct investment or any outward investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister of Economy and Finance. Both the making and the l iqu ida t ion of investments, whether these are Togo- lese investments abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Economy and Finance and to the BCEAO w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each operation. Direct investments constitute invest- ments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the M in is ter of Economy and Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from th is authorization: (1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct inves tmen t, wh ich are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans taken up either by industrial firms to f inance operations abroad or by approved international mer- chan t ing houses to f inance imports or exports; and (4) in certain circumstances, any other loans, provided that the Inc lud ing inves tmen ts made th rough foreign companies that are directly or ind irec t ly controlled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad or companies in Togo. Inc lud ing those made by companies in Togo that are d irec t ly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. outstanding amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 m i l l ion. The repayment of any foreign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Minis- ter of Economy and Finance; exempt from this require- ment are loans constituting a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization by the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. In addition, certain enterprises, in accordance w i th their importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted special privileges for a specified number of years relating to the mainte- nance of existing taxes and exemption from import duties. Such privileges are negotiated by the Govern- ment and the investor. An Investment Law, applicable to both foreign and domestic capital, sets out the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special found ing agreement by which they receive certain tax benefits. Firms that undertake to invest at least CFAF 25 m i l l ion may receive a guarantee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from th is requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes During 1983 No significant changes occurred in the exchange and trade system. 474 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Trinidad and Tobago is the Trinidad and Tobago Dollar, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at TT$2.4 = US$1. The official buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar are TT$2.3970 and TT$2.4210, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies' are also officially quoted, w i th daily quotations based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, acting as agent of the Government. The Central Bank exercises direct exchange approval authority on import payments, w i th the exception of visible imports for wh ich letters of credit had been opened on or before October 7, 1983. Approval author- ity w i th respect to the approval of payments for v is ib le imports to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, and w i th respect to payments up to specified amounts for certain current invisibles has been delegated to autho- rized banks. The exchange control system provides for compulsory surrender of foreign currency2'3 and for control over both current and capital transactions. All overseas payments and transfers require the approval of the exchange control authorities; payments to South Afr ica are pro- hibited. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents and local nonresident-controlled companies, are also subject to control. Notes issued by the East Caribbean Currency Author- ity and the Central Bank of Barbados are not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago, but under an arrangement w i th the monetary authorities concerned, the notes are pur- chased by the monetary authorities and are repatriated by them in return for reciprocity of treatment w i th respect to collections of Trinidad and Tobago dollars. From April 7, 1981 the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago no longer repatriates Trinidad and Tobago currency notes from the monetary authorities of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) countries.4 'Barbados do l lars, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, East Car ibbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands gu i lders, pounds s te r l ing, and Swiss f rancs. 2Under Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regu la t ions, all currencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are considered foreign currencies. 3If the bus iness of a trader, f i rm, or company invo lves f requent receipts and paymen ts in foreign currencies, permission may be granted for the retention of a portion of receipts in a Foreign Currency Accoun t, subject to the requirement that periodic statements of credits and debits to the account be subm i t ted to the au tho r i t ies. 4The CARICOM countries are A n t i g ua and Ba rbuda, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guy an a, Jamaica, Montserrat, S t. K i t t s- Nev i s, St. Luc ia, St. V incent and Grenad ines, and T r in idad and Tobago. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Indus try and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Settlements may be made in U .S. dollars or in any other specified currency5 except South African currency. Authorized paymen ts, inc lud ing payments for imports, to all countries may be made in U .S. dollars or in any other specified currency. Payments from all countries w i th wh ich trade is allowed must be received in U .S. dollars or in any other specified currency. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago. These accounts may be credited w i th payments by residents of Trinidad and Tobago that have been approved by the exchange control au thor i t ies, w i th transfers from other External Accounts, and w i th proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of Trinidad and Tobago, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equ iva lent to External Account U . S. dollars or any other foreign currency and may be transferred freely between residents of countries outside Trinidad and Tobago, w i th the exception that transfers from External Accounts held by residents of the CARICOM countries to any country outside Trinidad and Tobago other than that of the holder's residence are conditional upon the Central Bank being satisfied that the exchange control authorities of the holder's country of residence do not object. Blocked Accounts are normally credited w i th the balance of capital assets of persons who have emigrated from Trinidad and Tobago. The use of balances on Blocked Accounts is subject to authorization. Blocked funds may be reinvested in local securities which are not redeemable either optionally or contractually w i th in four years from the date of acquisition. Income arising from Blocked Accounts (such as interest and rents) is freely rem i t tab le, provided the tax liabilities are settled. Gener- a l ly, funds held in Blocked Accounts are eligible for rem i t tance to nonresidents after a period of four years. Imports and Import Payments Wh i le most commodities may be imported under open general license arrangements, some imports are subject 5 Au s t r i an s ch i l l ing s, Be lg ian f rancs, Burmese kya t s, Canadian dollars, Dan ish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, N e th e r l ands gu i ld e r s, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Span ish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, and pounds s te r l ing. 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO to the provisions of a Negative List. The list cites over 400 items that are subject to regulation by specific license and also identifies countries that are accorded special treatment. Trade w i th South Africa is prohibited, and all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Repub l ic, Hunga ry, the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea, Poland, Roman ia, the U .S .S .R ., and Yugoslavia are subject to specific licens- ing, irrespective of the Negative List status of the import concerned. At present, trade w i th these countries may be settled in U .S. dollars. In principle, trade w i th CARICOM countries is to be effected through the CARICOM multilateral clearing facil- ity (CMCF). The domestic importer or exporter makes payments or receipts in domestic currency, w i th corre- sponding credits and debits recorded for the two coun- tries by the CMCF agent. Foreign exchange settlement is deferred until fixed semiannual settlement periods and is effected in U .S. dollars. Effective March 31, 1983, Trinidad and Tobago suspended the CMCF arrangement on the stated grounds of failure on the part of certain member states to settle ou ts tand ing balances. Imports from all other countries may be paid for in any currency in which the goods are satisfactorily invoiced. The main items that are subject to the Negative List include cement, clothing, corrugated iron sheeting, cosmetics, saccharin, coffee and cocoa beans, and completely assembled motor vehicles. Firearms, ammu- nition, and narcotics are either prohibited or r ig id ly controlled for security and health reasons. Certain food products are covered by the Agricultural Marketing Protocol of the CARICOM Treaty. Imports of rice, oils, and fats are subject to state trading; rice is normally imported from Guyana at agreed prices .6 All imports of food and drugs must satisfy prescribed standards. Im- ports of meat, live an ima ls, and plants are subject to specific regulation, as are imports of m in ing materials. All other commodities from all sources may be imported under open general license. Where specific import licenses are required they must be obtained from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce before orders are placed. Payments for all imports require exchange control approval. Annual foreign exchange sales for imports are guided by a foreign exchange budget for imports. The allocation criteria give priority to capital goods, raw materials, other industrial inpu ts, and essential food and drugs. Importers must obtain exchange approval from the Central Bank before an import license can be activated. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current inv is ib les require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documen tary evidence. No restrictions are imposed on paymen ts for 6Packaged rice may be imported through normal commercial channels, but such imports are not u s u a l ly allowed from coun t r ies other than Guyana un less the contracted supp l ies are not fo r thcom ing. 476 current international transactions, except with respect to South Afr ica. Under authority delegated by the Central Bank the authorized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange w i th in prescribed limits for certain transactions in invisibles. When additional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required and this is granted provided that unauthorized capital trans- fers are not involved. For outward remittances of gifts and donations, the commercial banks must obtain ap- proval from the Central Bank. The basic allowance for tourist travel is TT$2,500 a person a year, for business travel TT$350 a day for a max imum of 30 days for one trip, and for health care TT$12,000 a year. Allowances for education abroad are TT$8,000 for schools, TT$12,000 for universities, and TT$1,200 for corre- spondence courses, and TT$700 once every two years for warm c lo th ing. Residents and nonresidents may take out of Trinidad and Tobago notes up to the equivalent of TT$200. Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export part of their basic travel allowance up to a max imum of TT$1,200 in foreign currency notes. Nonresidents v is i t ing Trinidad and Tobago may, on departure, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. Nonresidents leaving Trini- dad and Tobago are allowed to reconvert Trinidad and Tobago dollar notes into foreign currency up to the equivalent of TT$ 1,200 upon showing evidence of hav ing purchased such funds from authorized dealers. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of certain goods usua l ly require an individual license. These inc lude some foods tuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced locally. Exports of all other commodities are permitted by an open general license. In add i t ion, general licenses may be issued at the discretion of the M in is t ry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses have been issued to permit petroleum companies and sugar companies to export without specific licenses. The proceeds from sugar exports are subject to a tax, which varies on the basis of the price of the export sale. Purchases of petroleum and petroleum products from Trinidad and Tobago by other CARICOM countries are aided by the provisions of the CARICOM Oil Facility established by the Government; the facility provides long-term, low-interest loans to finance the increase over the level on Janua ry I, 1979 in the cost of oil imports from Trinidad and Tobago by other CARICOM countries. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of the ir proceeds. In practice, the petroleum companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate all foreign exchange after prov id ing for the equivalent of their local currency needs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in fore ign currencies must be surrendered. Insu rance, sh ipp ing, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago are usually authorized to ma in ta in operating accounts for receipts and expenditures in foreign currency. These companies give periodic accounts of the ir exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trinidad and Tobago currency notes up to the va lue of TT$200. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by residents and nonresidents. Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago require approval and generally are restricted. However, repay- ment of commercial credits is permitted free ly, and g if ts to nonresidents and emigration allowances are approved up to specified limits; furthermore, as a matter of po l icy, capital transfers to other CARICOM countries are per- mitted liberally. Legacies may be expatriated in f u l l. However, the Central Bank reserves the r ight to phase remittances up to a m ax imum of four years. Certain international institutions may be permitted to borrow in Trinidad and Tobago on a case-by-case basis. For transactions in securities, 14 authorized deposi- tories have been appointed. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities other than securities expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Contractual amortization of sterling securities is per- mitted, and also of mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other inves t- ments owned by nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago may not ordinarily be transferred and are e l ig ib le for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above); however, approval is often given to residents to purchase such assets. All foreign investment, whether in cash or in k ind, is normally eligible for repatriation provided it has been registered w i th the Central Bank. Hence, when funds are received for investment, local banks should au then t ica te the receipt of such funds from External Accoun ts. In the event of an appreciation in the va lue of the asset concerned, the remittance of any funds in excess of the original investment w i ll normally be phased over a max imum of five years, depending on the balance of payments situation. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to persons resident outside Trinidad and Tobago, w i th the prior approval of the exchange control au tho r i t ies, provided that the fu ll proceeds of sale are received in foreign currency. Foreign exchange is not norma l ly provided for portfolio investment by residents in foreign secur i t ies, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the o f f ic ial TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO market rate of exchange or, w i th the prior approval of the exchange control au thor i t ies, be invested outside Trini- dad and Tobago in s im i lar securities. Nonres iden ts may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities wh ich are either irredeemable or are not redeemable w i th in four years from the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discriminate between na t iona ls and foreigners in the formation and operation of companies in that coun try. Foreigners are requ ired, however, to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landho ld ing) Ordinance in order to hold interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Prospective foreign investors must obtain approval for their project from the au thor i t ies in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital ga ins. The Government has enacted basic incentive legisla- tion designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manu fac tu r ing and in impo r t -subs t i tu t ion industries. Since 1973 these policies have been effected w i th in the framework of a CARICOM agreement on harmonization of fiscal incen t ives. Certain concessions are granted to indus tr ies declared to be pioneer indus tr ies, that is, indus tr ies that have not previously existed in Trinidad and Tobago or wh i ch are not being conducted on a commerc ial scale, or any indu s t ry for wh ich there are favorab le prospects for fu tu re development. Every pio- neer manu fac tu rer is en t i t led to temporary relief from import du t ies and taxes and to other privileges. There are l im i t a t ions on the ex tent to wh ich banks may grant f inance to nonres ident ind iv idua ls and firms (other than residents of other CAR ICOM countries) and to nonres iden t-con tro l led local companies. Such companies are no rm a l ly required to raise any local capital needed to supp lement the ir assets by issu ing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. Each commercial bank mu st m a i n t a in the mon th ly average of its net foreign exchange position w i t h in a specified quan t i ta t ive ce i l ing. A commercial b ank, as an authorized dealer, is allowed to hold an "open" asset or l i ab i l i ty position in foreign exchange. However, the mon th ly average of its net fore ign exchange position must be maintained w i th in specified quan t i ta t ive ce i l ings. Gold Gold is defined by the Exchange Control Act of 1970 as gold coin and bu l l ion. The regu la t ions provide tha t, except w i th specific exemp t ions and permissions granted by the M in i s ter of Finance (1) one party to every transac t ion in gold between residents must be an autho- rized b ank, (2) gold held by residents must be surren- dered to an au thor ized b ank, and (3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents are permitted in appropriate cases, however, to purchase, ho ld, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for n um i sm a t ic purposes. Control on the import and export of gold is adminis- tered by the M in i s t ry of Indus t ry and Commerce. 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Imports of gold jewelry are on open general license, but imports of gold other than jewelry are subject to specific import licenses issued by the M in is try of Indus try and Commerce; such licenses are not norma l ly issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized indus tr ial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the monetary authorities. Imports of unrefined gold from non-CARlCQM sources are subject to import du ty at 5 per- cent (preferential du ty) or 15 percent (general du ty ), and those of partly worked gold at 15 percent (preferential du ty) or 25 percent (general du ty ). Such imports are free of purchase tax. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments March 18. Most imports from the CARICOM area were placed under specific licenses. March 31. The CARICOM mu l t i la teral clearing fac i l i ty (CMCF) was suspended on the stated grounds of the failure of certain member states to settle outstanding balances. October 7. A foreign exchange budget for imports was introduced, specifying guidelines for annual foreign exchange allocations for product categories, together w i th ind ica t ions of the amount that could be made available to ind iv idual applicants. The allocation criteria gave priority to capital goods, raw materials, other indus tr ial inpu ts, and essential food and drugs. Importers were required to obtain exchange approval from the Central Bank before an import license could be ac- t iva ted. Import licenses against which authorized foreign currency had not yet been fu l ly purchased would be called for re validation by the Central Bank. November 22. In a modification of the regulations introduced on October 7, 1983, it was announced that importers w i th letters of credit already opened on or before October 7, 1983 did not need to obtain exchange approval from the Central Bank but could proceed to their commercial banks, which were authorized to make foreign exchange available for the settlement of such letters of credit. 478 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA (Position on December 31, 1983} Exchange Arrangement The currency of Tun is ia is the Tun i s ian D ina r. The exchange value of the d inar is de term ined in accordance with a basket of currencies. The b u y i ng and se l l ing rates for foreign currenc ies1 are f ixed da i ly by the Cen tral Bank of Tun is ia. On December 3 1 , 1 9 83 the spot b u y i ng and selling rates of the dinar were D 0.08686 and D 0.08773, respectively, per F 1, and D 0.7235 and D 0.7307, respectively, per US$1. Since February 1, 1979, forward quotations are provided d a i ly for the deutsche mark, the French f ranc, and the U . S. d o l l a r .2 The buy ing and selling rates of au thor ized banks are identical w i th those of the Central B a n k. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Central B ank; some authority over paymen ts for imports and inv i s ib l es is delegated to the authorized bank s. Foreign trade control is administered by the Directorate of Trade and Licenses of the M in is try of Na t ional Economy, wh i ch determines, in consu l ta t ion w i th the Cen tral B a n k, the imports and exports that are to be proh ib i ted or l ibe r- alized as well as the imports that are to be subject to quotas in accordance w i th the Gove rnmen t 's ove ra ll program and the trade agreements w i th foreign coun- tries. The Directorate, in collaboration w i th the Cen tral Bank, issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tun is ia and foreign coun t r ies are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Cen tral Bank (see footnote 1) or in convertible Tun is ian d inars through Foreign Accounts. Settlements between T u n i s ia and Morocco, and certain se t t lemen ts between T u n i s ia and Algeria, may be effected through accounts in the national currencies concerned at the cen tral bank s. Payments to Israel and South A f r ica are p roh ib i ted. Nonresident Accounts Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be opened w i thout authorization in the names of nonres i- dent foreign nationals and of Tun i s ian workers abroad and, w i th authorization, in the names of other Tun i s i an nonresidents. These accounts may be credited free ly 'Currencies quoted spot are A u s t r i an s c h i l l i n g s, B e lg i an f r a n c s, Canadian dollars, Dan ish kroner, deu tsche m a r k, F i n n i sh m a r k k a a, French francs, I ta l ian l i re, Japanese y e n, L iby an d i n a r s, Moroccan d i r- hams, Ne ther lands gu i lde rs, No rweg ian k rone r, pounds s t e r l i n g, S a u di Arabian r iya ls, Spanish pesetas, Swed ish kronor, Sw i ss f ranc s, and U .S. dollars. In add i t ion, the Cen tral Bank quotes b a nk note rates for all of these currencies (except the Moroccan d i r h a m) and for CFA f rancs, K uw a i ti d ina rs, Ma li f ranc s, Qatar r i y a l s, and U . A . E. d irhams. 2The forward rates are ca lcu la ted for periods of one mon th to six months for the selling rates and of one, two, and th ree m o n t hs for the b u y i ng rates. w i th d inar proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of conve r t ib le cu r renc ies i n c l u d i ng bank notes declared to the Cus toms, w i th in terest on balances in these accounts, and w i th transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Conve r t ib le D ina rs; all other credits require prior au tho r i z a t ion, e i ther direct or by delegation. They may be debited freely for paymen ts of any k ind in Tun i s ia (irrespective of the coun try of residence of the payer), for t ran s fe rs to o ther Foreign Accoun ts in Convertible D ina r s, and for the purchase of any foreign currency from the Central Bank. Such currency may be trans- ferred abroad or rem i t ted in Tun i s ia to the account holder or to any other nonres ident bene f ic ia ry. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies may be es tab l ished by nonresidents w i thout au thor iza- t ion. They may be credited w i th convertible foreign currenc ies rem i t ted to the account holder by a nonresi- den t, w i th foreign currency purchased from the Central Bank by deb it of a Foreign Account in Convertible D ina r s, w i th au thor ized paymen ts by residents in favor of the account ho lde r, w i th interest payable by the au thor ized in termed iar ies on foreign exchange deposits in the accounts whenever they can use the funds thus deposited at remune ra t ive rates, w i th the proceeds from the ca sh ing of checks, t rave le r 's checks, or drafts expressed in conver t ib le currencies and made out by a non re s ident to the order of the account ho lder, and w i th fo re ign bank notes declared to the Customs. The ac- counts may be debited at any t ime for the sale of foreign currency to the Cen tral B ank, for transfers to any Foreign A c coun t, for t rans fer abroad, or for delivery of fore ign currency to the account holder or any other nonres ident bene f ic ia ry. Capital Accounts may be opened in the name of a res ident of any fore ign c o u n t r y. The opening of a Capital A c count by a non re s ident of Tun i s ian na t iona l i ty or his spouse mu st be au thor ized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global Cap i tal Accounts for the ir non res ident cus tomers. Subject to certain cond i t ions, Capital Accounts may be credited, without prior ap- proval of the Central B a n k, w i th the proceeds of the sale on the stock exchange, or of the contractual or advance redemp t ion, of T u n i s i an secu r i t ies, the sales proceeds of real estate or r igh ts to real estate s i tua ted in Tun is ia, and w i th f u n ds from a Cap i tal Account held by a person h av ing the n a t i o n a l i ty of a coun t ry be long ing to the same mone tary area as that of the holder of the account to be c red i ted. Irrespective of the account ho lde r 's coun try of res idence, Cap i tal Accoun ts may be freely debited for l i v i ng expenses in T u n i s ia of the account holder and his f am i l y, up to D 50 a person a week and D 1,000 a family a year; the i n d i v i d u al l i m it may be raised to D 100, sub ject to a l im it of D 2,000 for each f am i ly v i s i t ing Tun i s ia be tween November 1 of each year and March 31 of the f o l l ow i ng year, provided that the total amount 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA used in any single year does not exceed D 2,000 a f am i ly. In add i t ion, a Capital Account holder t rave l ing in Tunisia between November 1 and March 31 may w i thdraw from such an account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the trip and surrendered to the Central Bank of Tunisia, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total w i thd rawa ls for the l iv ing expenses of the account holder or his f am i ly do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Such accounts may also be debited, subject to certain cond i t ions, for expenses connected w i th the management of Tun i s ian securities, the maintenance, repair, and insurance of real estate and all taxes, and for transfer to the credit of another Capital Account. Subject to certain conditions, they may also be debited to assist the account holders' parents and offspring residing in Tun is ia at a m a x im um rate of D 50 a person a month. These accounts may not be over- drawn. Balances held by physical persons of foreign nationality and not exceeding D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975 are transferab le abroad. Physical and ju r id ical persons of French na t ion- ality holding capital accounts may transfer up to D 2,000 of balances belonging to them in each such account as of October 25, 1980. Furthermore, balances ou ts tand ing on October 31, 1980 can be used up to December 31, 1984 for the purchase of five-year government bonds, when the amount utilized is not greater than D 10,000, and seven-year government bonds w i th funds u t i l ized over and above that amoun t. Interest paymen ts and repay- ments on maturing bonds are transferable through an authorized intermediary. Internal Nonresident Accounts are used m a in ly by natural persons of foreign na t iona l i ty staying temporarily in Tunisia and receiving income in d inars there; these accounts may be opened f ree ly, but balances may be used only in Tunisia. Internal Nonresident Export Accounts may be credited w i th the salaries of nonresident foreign na t iona ls em- ployed in enterprises benefiting from certain export incentives under Law No. 72-38 of Apr il 27, 1972. Special Dinar Accounts. Nonres ident foreign enter- prises holding contracts in Tun is ia may be authorized to open Special Dinar Accounts intended to cover, to ta l ly or partially, their expenses in Tunisia. The Central Bank determines the operational and l iqu ida t ion procedures for such accounts on a case-by-case basis. Balances in such accounts receive interest at the same rate as sight and time deposit accounts in dinars. Suspense Accounts are used for cred i t ing all proceeds accruing in Tunisia to nonresidents where such proceeds are awaiting u t i l iza t ion in Tunisia for specified purposes or central bank approval for transfer abroad or transfer to other nonresident accounts. Subject to certain condi- tions, Suspense Accounts may be debited, w i thout the prior authorization of the Central Bank, in respect of purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, portfolio manage- ment expenses in respect of certain securities, paymen ts to the Tun is ian Government or pub l ic in s t i tu t ion s, and 480 se t t lement of l i v i ng expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder (irrespective of his country of residence) or his f am i ly up to D 50 a person a week and D 1,000 a f am i ly a year; the ind iv idu al l im it may be raised to D 100, subject to a l im it of D 2,000 a year for each fam i ly visiting Tunisia between November 1 of each year and March 31 of the fo l low ing year, provided that the total amount used in any year does not exceed D 2,000 a f am i ly. In addition, a Suspense Account holder trave l ing in Tun is ia between November 1 and March 31 may w i thd raw from such an account an amount equal to the foreign exchange imported for the tr ip and surrendered to the Central Bank of Tun is ia, an authorized intermediary, or a subagency, provided that total w i thd rawa ls for the l iv ing expenses of the account holder or his f am i ly do not exceed D 2,000 a year. Physical persons of foreign nationality may transfer abroad assets that they hold if these did not exceed D 1,000 on December 31, 1973 or D 2,000 on May 31, 1975. Phys ical or ju r id ical persons of French na t iona l i ty ho ld ing Suspense Accounts may transfer up to D 2,000 of balances be long ing to them in each such account as of October 25, 1980. All other debits to these accounts requ ire the au thor iza t ion of the Central Bank. Foreign Currency Savings Accounts may be main- tained w i th the Postal Adm in is tra t ion in the names of Tun i s ian na tu ral or ju r id ical persons who are resident abroad. These accounts may be credited with the coun te rva lue in d ina rs of convertible foreign currency transferred by the account holder by check or postal transfer. They may be debited free ly. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Afr ica are pro- h ib i ted. Liberalized imports (defined as the items listed in Annex I of the Notice to Importers and Exporters pub l ished in Off ic ial Gazette No. 75 of November 27, 1981) require on ly an import certificate, wh i le all other imports require approval, which may be given w i th in the framework of a b i la teral quota or a global quota. Imports of non l ibe ra l ized goods require an import license from the Directorate of Trade and Licenses and the visa of the Central Bank; when issu ing the license, the Directorate of Trade and Licenses, if necessary, consults with the appropriate techn ical m in i s t ry. Certain products may be imported from any country (except Israel and South Africa) under special proce- dures, as fo l lows: Certain spare parts and a few other products required by indus tr ies may be imported without license against presentation of an importer's card up to D 500 a year for each importer. Liberalized products listed in the notice to importers and exporters published on November 27, 1971 may be imported under an import certificate. This procedure is used for spare parts imported by industry and the hotel trade which are intended for incorporation or u t i l iza t ion in their facilities or for capital goods authorized by the Investment Promotion Agency. All products, except those imported under an import certificate, may be imported under an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution "annual import au tho r iza t ion ," irrespective of the import regime ( l ibera l ized, p roh ib i ted, or subject to quo t a) or their country of o r ig in. Indu s t r i e s, p a r t i c u l a r ly expo r t- oriented indus tr ies and agencies respons ib le for s u p p l y- ing certain essential goods for domes t ic and i n d u s t r i al use, may avail themselves of th is annual au tho r iza t ion. Manu fac tu r ing indus t r ies produc ing e x c l u s i v e ly for export and covered by Law No. 72-38 may import f r e e ly any goods required for their production process, subject only to a customs dec la ra t ion. In specified cases, impo r ts destined for domestic inves tment projects are e l ig ib le for import du ty exemp t ions or reduced rates of import d u t y. Consumer goods listed under some 332 ta r i ff i t ems or subitems are licensed on ly w i t h in an ove ra ll fo re ign exchange ce i l ing set by the M i n i s t ry of P l a n n i ng and Finance. Imports of certain goods are l icensed in such a manner as to ensure that payment is made w i t h in the framework of government loans. Other goods that are subject to gove rnment monopo ly are imported by a single operator or by p u b l ic agencies— ma in ly the Regie Na t iona le des Tabacs et A l l um e t t es (matches, p lay ing cards, and tobacco), the Off ice du Commerce (coffee, tea, and suga r ), the Off ice des Cereales (gra ins), and the Pharmac ie Cen t ra le de T u n i s ie (drugs). Prohibited imports by such agencies are sub ject to the same l icens ing arrangements as p r iva te impo r t s. To obtain an import cer t if ica te, an impo rt au tho r iza- tion, an import license, or an importer's card, importers must have received a customs code n um b e r. All import documents invo lv ing paymen ts must be dom i c i l ed w i th an authorized bank. Foreign currency may be purchased from the Central Bank for a ll p aym en ts that have received proper and prior a u t h o r i z a t i o n. Re s ident im- porters are authorized to buy forward fore ign cu r renc ies required for f u t u re se t t lement of t h e ir m e r ch and i se imports, for a m ax imum term of six mon th s. In add i t ion to customs du t ies, a number of import taxes are app l i ed. Payments for Invisibles All payments for inv i s ib les requ i re the approval of the Central Bank; for some t ransac t ions t h is a u t h o r i ty has been delegated to the au thor ized b a n k s. Payments for a number of cu r rent i n v i s i b l es are approved, provided that they are properly do cum en t ed. These inc lude ( 1) various paymen ts related to in t e rn a- tional trade (e .g ., port services, w a r e h o u s i n g, comm i s- sions, and brokerage); (2) paymen ts for processing, repair, assemb ly, roya l t ies, pa ten ts and t r ad em a rk s, taxes, f ines, and court expenses; and (3) p a ym e nt of interest and amortization a r is ing from au tho r ized con- tractual obligations to non res iden ts. Approval is also given freely for rem i t tance of ce r ta in d i v i d e n ds due to nonresidents. In add i t ion, exporters ho ld ing ba lances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these free ly for expend i tu res abroad in connection w i th par t ic ipa t ion in in t e rn a t ion al trade f a i r s, and to pay customs duties and various other expenses related to exports. Exporters as w e ll as hotel owne rs may TUNISIA use EFAC ba lances free ly for expenses related to p u b l i c i ty ab road, and up to f ixed l im i ts (see below) for cer ta in o ther expenses. N a t u r al persons and enterprises p rodu c ing for export w i t h in the f ramewo rk of Law No. 72-38 may f ree ly make paymen ts related to the ir production process; amoun ts in convertible dinars cred- i ted to the Bu s in e ss Travel Accoun ts of res ident f irms covered by Law No. 72-38 may be free ly used for bus iness travel up to D 4,000 a year for each enterprise. P aym en ts for ce r ta in o ther cu r rent i n v i s i b l es are approved up to f ixed l im i t s. Res iden ts t rave l ing abroad as tou r i s ts are en t i t l ed once a year to an exchange a l lo c a t ion e q u i v a l e nt to D 100 a person (D 50 for c h i l d r en u n d er ten ); the a l loca t ions for two consecutive years may be c um u l a t e d. The m o n t h ly fore ign exchange a l low an ce for educa t ional expenses abroad is the equ iva- lent of D 250 for those s tudy ing in Canada and the U n i t ed S ta tes, D 200 for s tuden ts in Western European c o u n t r i e s, and D 140 for those in other countries. Expor ters and hotel owners ho ld ing EFAC accounts may use such ba lances up to the e q u i v a l e nt of D 2,000 a year for b u s i n e ss t ravel abroad. A fore ign n a t ion al employed u n d er con t ract may t ran s fer up to 50 percent of his net wage or sa la ry w i t h o ut l i m it if h is f am i ly is not resident in T u n i s ia and sub ject to a m a x i m um of D 150 a month if h is f am i ly l iv es in T u n i s i a .3 Foreign experts employed by the p u b l ic sector may t rans fer abroad the ir mon th ly salaries up to the l im i ts specified in their contracts. Foreign sa lar ied wo rke rs born in Tun i s ia may transfer 30 percent of t h e ir net bas ic sa la r ies, up to D 80 a mon th. The export of T u n i s i an d i n ar bank notes or coin is p r o h i b i t e d. U n l e ss cen t ral bank pe rm iss ion is obtained, the reconve rs ion of domes t ic b ank notes by nonresident t rave le rs is res tr ic ted to 30 percent of the amount of fo r e ign cu r rency p r ev iou s ly sold, subject to a m ax imum of D 100, if the trave ler's stay in Tunisia exceeds 24 hou rs; if it does not exceed 24 hours, there is no l im i t a t i on on the reconve rs ion. Exports and Export Proceeds A ll expor ts to Israel and Sou th A f r i ca are proh ib i ted. Ce r ta in exports are l ib e r a l i z ed. The export of w ine is the monopo ly of the Off ice du V i n, the export of cereals that of the O f f ice des Cerea les, and the export of o l ive oil that of the O f f ice N a t i o n al de 1 'H u i l e. W i th the exceptions noted b e l ow, all export proceeds mu st be repatriated and surrendered, no rma l ly w i th in 10 days from the date p aym ent is due if no cred it is extended or, un le ss special a u t h o r i z a t i on from the Cen tral Bank is ob ta ined, w i th in 100 days af ter sh ipm ent if the goods are sold on credit. Re s ident expor ters may sell forward for a m a x im um term of th ree m o n t h s, th rough au tho r ized in termed iar ies, fo re ign cu r renc ies rep resen t ing the proceeds from the ir m e r ch a nd i se expo r ts. Exporters and hotel owners may arrange to c red it part of th e ir export proceeds to special ^The re a re spec ial r e g u l a t i o ns for those emp loyed by non re s ident m a n u f a c t u r i ng e n t e r p r i s es covered by Law No. 72-38 and p roduc ing e x c l u s i v e ly f or e x p o r t. 481 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accoun ts de- nominated in conve r t ib le d in a r s. For exporters the l im i ts are 4 percent if export proceeds are repa tr ia ted more th an 30 days af ter sh ipment of the me rchand i se, and 6 percent if repatriation occurs w i t h in 30 days f o l l ow i ng s h i pm e n t. Hotel owners may cred it to such accoun ts up to 4 percent of their foreign exchange proceeds. Au tho r i z ed in te r- mediaries may grant sure ty bonds and pe r fo rmance bonds to res ident exporters and to re s ident expo r t ing enterprises e l ig ib le under Law No. 72-38. Res ident m anu f a c tu r ing indu s t r ies that produce e x c l u s i v e ly for export and are approved under the te rms of Law No. 72-38 may arrange to cred it 2 percent of t h e ir repatriated conver t ib le currency export proceeds to B u s i- ness Travel Accoun ts in Conve r t ib le D in a r s. Under the prov is ions of Law No. 72-38, non re s ident m anu f a c tu r ing enterprises ( i . e ., en terpr ises whose cap- ital is held by nonres iden ts and has been con s t i tu ted to the ex tent of at least 66 percent th rough the import of convertible currenc ies) p roduc ing e x c l u s i v e ly for export are exempt from the requ i rement of repa t r ia t ion and surrender of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents mu st repatriate and surrender a ll amoun ts derived from services rendered to persons resident abroad and also all other income or proceeds from invisibles received from foreign coun tr ies. However, there are certain EFAC f a c i l i t i es for such proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Foreign bank notes and coin (except gold co in) may be b rought in freely; nonresident travelers w i sh ing to re-export the equ iva lent of over D 500 mu st make a cu r rency declaration upon en try. The import of Tun i s ian d in ar bank notes and coin is p roh ib i t ed. Capital All nonresidents who w ish to invest in T u n i s ia are required to obtain the pr ior approval of the T u n i s i an authorities in order to be able to t rans fer the p r inc ipal of, and current ea rn ings f rom, such i n v e s tm e n t s. Foreign inves tment in Tun i s ia may ob ta in the bene f i ts provided for by the Inv e s tm ent Code (Law No. 69-35) and by Law No. 81-56 p rov id ing incen t ives for inve s t- ment in m anu f a c tu r ing indu s t ry and for i n d u s t r i al decen- tra l iza t ion. These inc lude a number of tax f a c i l i t i es as well as a guarantee of the r ight to repa tr ia te the cap i tal invested in foreign currency or the net proceeds of sale or l iqu ida t ion, even if th is amount exceeds the amount in i t ia l ly invested in foreign currency p lus the ea rn ings on that cap i ta l. Furthermore, Law No. 72-38 prov ides for va r ious special bene f i ts for nonres ident m anu f a c tu r ing en te rp r i se s, i n c l u d i ng an exemp t ion from the repa tr ia t ion r e q u i r em e nt in respect of export proceeds. Law No. 76-63 provides for the e s tab l i shment in Tun i s i a, sub ject to pr ior approval by the M i n i s t ry of P l ann ing and F inance and the Cen tral B a n k, of fo re ign f in an c i al and b a n k i ng i n s t i t u t i o ns conduc t ing bus iness w i th nonresi- den t s. Howeve r, these i n s t i t u t i o ns may also g rant credits to res iden ts or take up pa r t ic ipa t ions in the capital of res ident compan ies upon au tho r iza t ion from the Central B a n k. Such i n s t i t u t i o ns are regarded as nonres ident for exchange control purposes; they need not repatriate any of th e ir funds or proceeds and may f ree ly ex tend credit to non res iden ts for the inve s tment and wo rk ing cap i tal r equ i r em en ts of en terpr ises in Tun i s i a. Foreign n a t ion a ls who have been res iden ts of Tun i s ia and have left T u n i s ia pe rmanen t ly are en t i t led to the t r an s f er of the f o l l ow i n g: 50 percent of th e ir assets (sub ject to a c e i l ing of D 3,500) for those who left T u n i s ia before Augu st 20, 1970;4 D 4,000 for those who le ft be tween Augu st 20, 1970 and December 3 1, 1973; D 5,000 for those who le ft be tween J anu a ry 1, 1974 and December 31, 1974; D 10,000 for those who le ft after December 3 1, 1974; D 15,000 for those leav ing Tun i s ia a f ter December 31, 1978; and D 25,000 for those of French n a t i o n a l i ty res id ing and wo rk ing in Tun i s ia as of October 25, 1980 and who sub s equ en t ly retired and le ft T u n i s ia pe rmanen t ly a f ter that da te. A ll cap i tal t ran s fe rs by res iden ts and a ll loans to non re s iden ts requ i re the approval of the Central Bank. Dona t ions or the proceeds from inhe r i tances acc ru ing to non re s iden ts are credited to Cap i tal Accoun t s. The amo r t i z a t ion of loans taken up w i th cen tral bank ap- proval from non res iden ts is f ree ly t ran s fe rab le. Gold Five d enom in a t ions of commemo ra t ive gold coin are legal tender but do not c i rcu la te. Res iden ts may acquire and hold gold in any form in Tun i s i a. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the import and export of monetary go ld. O ther impor ts of gold requ i re jo int au tho r iza t ion by the Central Bank and the M in is t ry of Na t ional Economy. On ly d en t i s ts and specified cooperatives of indu s t r ial users are e l ig ib le to purchase gold from the Central B a n k. The export of gold is p roh ib i ted. Changes During 1983 No s ign i f icant changes occurred in the exchange and trade sys tem. 4S u ch persons may t r a n s f er D 1,750 if the to tal amount of t h e ir assets does not exceed D 3,500. 482 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position on December 31, 1983)l Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkey is the Turk ish Lira. The authorities of Turkey do not observe margins in respect of exchange transactions, and Turkey fo l lows a f lex ib le exchange rate policy under wh ich exchange rates for the lira are adjusted from time to t ime .2 On December 28, 1983 the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were LT 279.00 = US$1, and LT 284.58 - US$1, respectively. Administration of Control3 Exchange control is administered by the M in i s t ry of Finance. Trade control is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, wh ich also prepares the import programs. The M in is try of Commerce, or the Central Bank on the advice of the M in is t ry, allocates foreign exchange; certain foreign exchange allocations for im- ports, including commodities on liberalized l ist II, require the prior approval of the appropriate m in i s t ry; for the public sector, such exchange allocations are made by the Ministry of Finance. The Central Bank issues import licenses on instructions of the M in is try of Commerce. Export registration is carried out by professional organ- izations (the Exporters Un ion, the Chambers of Com- merce, of Indus try, and of Commerce and Indus t ry) according to the instructions of the M in is try of Com- merce; export licenses are issued by this M in i s t ry, wh i ch may delegate the issuance of export licenses to the professional organizations. Import and export licenses for gold, however, are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency and Nonresident Accounts4 Settlements under bilateral payments agreements5 are made in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreement, but proceeds from exports to these countries may be received in any convertible currency. Certain commercial settlements w i th Iraq, the L ibyan Arab Jamahiriya, and Romania, and w i th the other members of the Regional Cooperation for Development ( Is lam ic Republic of Iran and Pakistan) are made through special 'On December 29, 1983 the authorities introduced major changes in the exchange and trade system. However, as foreign exchange transactions were suspended u n t il Janua ry 2, 1984, these changes did not come into effect u n t il Janua ry 3, 1984. 2W i th effect from January 3, 1984, commercial banks are free to establish their own exchange rates w i th in a band of ± 6 percent around a "central rate" established d a i ly by the Cen tral Bank; the spread between the buy ing and selling rates of a commercial bank may not exceed 2 percent. For its own transactions w i th commercial banks and w i th the nonbank sector, the Central Bank sets up d a i ly b u y i ng and selling rates wh ich fa ll w i t h in the spread established by lead ing bank s. 3Following the changes announced on December 29, 1983, w h i ch came into effect on January 3, 1984, exchange and trade controls are administered by the Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade. 4Certain modifications in the prescription of currency were in- troduced as part of the changes wh ich came in to e f fect on J a n u a ry 3, 1984. 5Turkey ma in ta ins a bilateral paymen ts agreement w i th the I s lam ic Republic of I ran. accounts denom ina ted in U .S. dollars. Settlements w i th all other countries are made in convertible currencies. Proceeds from exports to specified countries in Western Europe6 mu st be received in the currency of a coun try in th is group. Nonres iden ts as well as resident ju r id ical persons are no longer permitted to open, or to add to, demand or time accounts in Turkey that are denom ina ted in convertible Turk ish liras and that bear an exchange guarantee by the Central Bank (see section on Cap i ta l, be low ). Imports and Import Payments1 Imports of o ld, used and reconditioned, defec t ive, subs tandard, soiled, or poor-qua l i ty goods are subject to au tho r iza t ion, issued by the State P l ann ing Organ iza t ion (Department of Encouragemen t) for certain projects. All commercial imports requ ire import licenses, wh ich are va l id for 6 mon ths, and, gene ra l ly, goods must be cleared th rough the cus toms w i t h in 6 mon ths and 20 days. The v a l i d i ty of import licenses may be extended by an au thor ized bank for a period not exceeding 12 mon th s. Import licenses are issued to registered importers, indu s t r ia l i s t s, state economic enterprises, and government departments. Private ind iv idua ls and corpo- rate bodies are required to secure an import certificate issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce before subm i t t ing app l ica t ions th rough the au thor ized banks for licenses to import goods for commercial purposes. Exporters, m ine operators, sh ipowners, b u i l d i ng contractors who have under taken the cons truc t ion of state es tab l ishmen ts, tour ist es tab l ishmen ts, and registered manu fac tu re rs are also requ ired to secure an import certificate for imports to be used exc lus ive ly for their own needs; a certificate es tab l ish ing the ir qua l i f ica t ions is issued by the respec- tive pub l ic au tho r i ty, that is, the Chambers of Commerce and of Indu s t ry, the Exporters U n i o n, or the M in is t ry of Tourism and In fo rma t ion. Most goods are imported in accordance w i th the provisions of import programs wh ich are p lanned for one year. The import programs c lass i fy imports in three categories of liberalized imports, l ist I, l ist II, and the Fund l is t. There are no l im i ts as to either va lue or qu an t i ty of goods brought in under these l is ts. Import licenses are issued freely and applications for import licenses for goods on the l ibera l ized lists may be subm i t ted at any t ime to authorized banks, wh ich transfer them to the Central Bank for issuance of the import licenses. However, before an import license may be issued for goods to be imported under l i st II, approval ^ A u s t r i a, B e l g i um, D e nm a r k, F rance, Federal R e p u b l ic of Ger- m a n y, I t a l y, N e t h e r l a n d s, No rw ay, Sweden, Sw i t z e r l a n d, a nd Un i t ed K i n g d om. 7Impo rt con t rol r egu l a t ions were s u b s t a n t i a l ly s im p l i f i ed and l ibe ra l ized as part of the reforms w h i ch came in to e f f e ct on J a n u a ry 3, 1984. 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY of the appropriate government depar tment is requ i red. Procedures for importation of goods under the Fund l i st are the same as for l ist I; however, for adm in is tra t ive purposes the Fund list and l i st I are kept separate, as goods on the Fund list are subject to special import levies determined from t ime to t ime by the Money and Cred it Council. Imports of goods that do not appear on any of the three l is ts may be imported when spec if ica l ly authorized by the M in is t ry of Commerce. The l is ts apply, in principle, only to imports from countries other than those w i th wh i ch Turkey has b i la teral agreements;8 goods not included in these three import l i s ts may not be imported under the bilateral quo tas. The import l icense permits the necessary foreign exchange payment to be made. Paymen ts for imports may be made aga inst letters of credit, documen ts, or goods ( i . e ., upon customs clearance). For payment aga inst letters of cred i t, all importers (w i th the exception of government depart- ments) are required to prepay in local currency the equ iva lent of the foreign exchange for w h i ch they have applied. The prepayments are transferred to the Central Bank by the authorized bank w i t h in f ive days. For payment against goods, 20 percent of the local currency counterpart of the va lue of the con s ignment has to be deposited at the t ime of app l ica t ion for the import license and the balance at the date of cus toms c learance. Importers are fo rma l ly required to effect the re la t ive foreign exchange transfer w i t h in f ive mon ths from the date of the import license for paymen ts aga inst docu- men ts and w i t h in two mon ths from the date of cus toms clearance for paymen ts against goods. Exchange rate ad jus tmen ts for o f f ic ia l ly quoted cur- rencies en ta il changes in requ ired import deposits. Importers are required to increase the ir deposits in the special account or they may receive r e imbu r s em ent from the special account in the fo l low ing cases: ( 1) when foreign exchange has been sold to the importer but the goods have not yet been imported, (2) when no fore ign exchange has been sold and the goods have not been cleared by cus toms, and (3) when no fore ign exchange has been sold but the goods have been cleared by customs. Imports from bilateral agreement countries are subject to separate quo tas, wh i ch are es tab l ished on ly for commodities that appear on l is ts I and II. App l ica t ions under the bilateral quotas specified in each agreement are subm i t ted by the Central Bank or the respons ib le pub l ic au thor i ty to the M in is t ry of Commerce on a mon th ly basis. Financing through acceptance credits w i th a m i n im um ma tu r i ty of 180 days is permitted for certain impor ts, inc lud ing imports by indu s t r i a l i s ts for the ir own use. Turkish banks have been requested to use ha lf of th e ir total acceptance credit f i n a n c i ng for imports of petro- 8Wh en p e rm i t t ing imports of goods from coun t r i es o ther t h an the paymen ts agreement c o u n t r i es or member coun t r i es of the O r g a n i z a t i on for Economic Cooperation and Deve lopment (OECD), the M i n i s t ry of Commerce takes in to account the ba lance of trade and p a ym e n ts w i th these coun t r ie s. 484 leum and fe r t i l ize r s. In p r in c ip l e, commercial banks have to meet all foreign exchange needs arising from acceptance credit f inanc ing from their own foreign exchange resources. Banks can app ly at the Central Bank for the t rans fer of foreign exchange bu t, as a conse- quence, they lose the r ight to carry out fu tu re acceptance credit operations. Guaran tee deposits for imports are payable in ad- vance, genera l ly as fo l lows: for goods on liberalized list I, l ist II, and the Fund l ist for indus tr ia l is ts' own requ i remen t s, 7.5 percent, and for other importers, 15 percen t, of the va lue of the merchand ise .9 Public sector imports, w i th the exception of those inc luded in general or added to the budge t, are subject to a 7.5 percent advance import deposit requ iremen t. For imports und er b i la te ral quotas the rate of guarantee deposit depends on the l i st on wh ich the goods are inc luded if imported from a nonpaymen ts agreement coun t ry. Guaran tee deposits are payable irrespective of the method of paymen t. The pub l ic sector is exempt, howeve r, and in many cases indus t r ia l is ts make a symbo l ic deposit of 1 percent (on imports under invest- ment quo tas set aside for the ir use and applicable to conve r t ib le currency coun tr ies o n l y, or on imports under inves tment quotas in bilateral agreements). The deposit rema ins blocked u n t il the goods have been cleared through cus toms and the fore ign supp l ier is paid; it is then re funded to the importer. The guarantee deposits collected are transferred weekly to an account held by the Central Bank in the name of the authorized bank. Shou ld imports not be made in conform i ty w i th the regu la t ion s, a part of the guarantee deposit corre- sponding to up to 10 percent of the va lue of such imports is forfe i ted to the Treasury. Private compensation transactions are not permitted in any fo rm, except that the M in i s t ry of Commerce is au tho r ized to conc lude agreements to dispose of goods acqu ired through price-supporting purchases made by the State. There are special arrangements for the allocation of foreign exchange for exporters of manu fac tu res and indu s t r i al and m i n i ng products who are entitled to foreign exchange a l loca t ions equ iva lent to 50 percent of exports for the ir own import needs. Exporters are en t i t led to use these foreign exchange earnings for paymen ts for goods up to twice the amount of inpu ts imported under the "cash against goods" scheme. Fur- thermore, manu fac tu re rs who have export orders in h and, or are w i l l i ng to guaran tee exports of a specific v a l u e, are allowed to arrange for credits abroad in order to f inance the ir import needs, up to 50 percent of the va lue of the export orders in hand or 50 percent of their export comm i tm en t. The arrangements for credits are yFor f e r t i l i z e r s, amm o n i a, breed ing a n im a l s, pesticides, whea t, o il and o il p rodu c t s, suga r, coa l, and ce r ta in produc ts on l ibe ra l ized l ist I, the rate is 1 pe rcen t. For m a t e r i a ls used for s h i p b u i l d i n g, repa ir, and m o d i f i c a t i on carried out w i t h in the coun t ry, and for the cons truc t ion of sh ipy a rd s, the rate is 0 .1 pe rcen t, p rov ided the v a lue of imports does not exceed LT 250,000; when sh ips are b u i lt abroad or are purchased abroad, the rate is 0 .2 pe rcen t, p rov ided the v a l ue of guaran tee deposits does not exceed LT 500,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution subject to the condition that the exporter w i ll repay the external credits out of export earnings. The Government makes available to manufac turers foreign exchange conversion authorizations from the Export Promotion Foreign Exchange Fund established in 1970. Moreover, exporters are entitled to priority in foreign exchange allocations equivalent to 1 percent of the ir foreign exchange receipts in the previous year, subject to a l im it of US$50,000. Imports without an allocation of foreign exchange may be permitted by the customs authorities, the Central Bank, or the Ministry of Finance, under certain condi- tions. Travelers domiciled in Turkey may bring in for personal or professional (but noncommercial) use goods and machinery up to a l im it (in terms of total import duties applicable) of the Turkish lira equ iva lent of DM 700. Separate l im i ts and conditions apply to imports of goods for personal use, and of professional ins t ru- ments and machines, by persons who have resided abroad for employment or s tudy; these vary w i th the length of stay abroad and w i th the transfer of foreign exchange to Turkey. Companies or cooperatives formed in Turkey by residents temporarily wo rk ing abroad may import investment goods to the extent of the foreign exchange invested. In addition to personal effects, foreign tourists may import goods and mach inery for their personal or fam i ly use, provided that they complete the customs clearance and related declaration. Foreign contractors may temporarily import ma- chinery, vehicles, and scientific ins trumen ts w i t h o ut requesting an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are proved to be necessary for the ir operations in Turkey. Foreign companies established in Turkey may import spare parts not intended for new investments w i thout requesting an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are necessary for the ir operations. All such imports require the permission of the exchange control authorities. The sale or transfer in Turkey of goods imported on these terms is subject to the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Imports of automobiles ,10 tractors, or professional machinery, etc., w i thout payment of foreign exchange may be permitted by the Central Bank or the M in i s t ry of Finance, provided that certain conditions are met re la t ing to residence abroad and to remittance and sale of foreign exchange to authorized banks in Turkey. Au tomob i les imported w i thout a foreign exchange allocation may be sold to residents by the Turk ish na t iona ls who had imported them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey may sell their automobiles to Turkish residents, provided that the necessary import duties are paid at the time of the sale, that Turkish diplomats in the seller's country are granted reciprocal privileges, and that the proceeds from such sales are not transferred abroad. Foreign o f f ic ia ls, other than diplomats, may not sell to Turkish na t iona ls any automobiles imported du ty free under special agree- ments. Other foreign nationals resident in Turkey may TURKEY import automobiles under certain conditions, but these mu st be exported after three years; however, this three- year period may be extended, and the Ministry of Finance may also permit the sale of such cars to the State Supply Office or to nonprofit organizations. In addition to customs d u t y, imported goods are subject to the fo l low ing charges: (1) a customs surcharge (mun ic ipal tax) of 15 percent of the applicable customs du ty; (2) a stamp d u ty of 1 percent of the declared value; (3) a qu ay du ty of 5 percent on the sum of c . i . f. va lue, customs d u t y, customs surcharge, and customs clearance expenses; and (4) a production tax ranging from 10 per- cent to 75 percent on the sum of c . i . f. va lue, customs du ty, customs surcharge, customs clearing expenses, and quay du ty. The quay du ty is not payable on goods imported by a ir. Goods under the Fund list are subject to special import levies determined periodically by the Money and Credit Counc i l. A 15 percent import sur- charge is levied on imports of certain iron, steel, and plastic products from the European Commun i ty (EC). Under a program introduced in Janua ry 1980, cred- itors in respect of arrears on nonguaranteed import paymen ts wh i ch had become short-term liabilities of the Central Bank have been given an option of receiving payment either in Turk ish liras or in five foreign currencies (U .S. dollars, deutsche ma rk, pounds ster- l i n g, French francs, and Swiss francs). Local currency obtained under the program is eligible for investment in specified areas; such inves tmen ts cannot be transferred abroad for at least five years. C la iman ts exercising the foreign currency option could switch to the Turkish lira option up to the end of June 1982. Payments for Invisibles{l Payments for inv is ib les require exchange licenses, wh ich u su a l ly are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted l ibera l ly for the following purposes, provided that app l ica t ions are accompanied by specified docu- ments: paymen ts related to trade ( inc lud ing shipping costs and expenditures connected w i th other freight charges), subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, purchases of books, payments for registration fees, advertising expenses, consulate income, paymen ts by the Government, payments by the Post Office Adminis- tration and s im i lar state ins t i tu t ions, banks' commissions and expenses, a proportion of insurance companies' paymen ts, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for commercial transactions. The transfer of income related to foreign inves tmen ts approved under the Law for the Encourage- ment of Foreign Investment is permitted freely. Interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey ( inc lud ing those of an agricul- tural na tu re) may be granted t ran s fe rab i l i ty between foreign na t iona ls both in Turkey and abroad. "Automobiles are not inc luded in the import program. 1' R egu l a t ions on i n v i s i b le paymen ts were sub s tan t ia l ly relaxed as part of the reforms w h i ch came in to effect on January 3, 1984. 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Turkish citizens may not leave the coun try w i thout obtaining an allocation of foreign exchange for travel, but th is does not apply to foreign na t iona ls res id ing in Turkey. Tourist travel is restricted, in e f fec t, to one tr ip a person every two years, and two trips a person a year to Cyprus. A tax of 50 percent is applied to the purchase of foreign exchange by Turkish na t iona ls trave l ing abroad. Since May 1, 1981 th is tax has been inc luded w i t h in the da i ly exchange rates un i fo rm ly quoted by the Central Bank of Turkey. The m ax imum foreign exchange a l low- ance for business travel for one trip a year is between US$3,000 and US$4,500, w i th ind iv idual l im i ts deter- mined on the basis of annual profit as indicated in the balance sheet of the app l ican t's f i rm. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes ( e .g ., educa t ion, pa r t ic ipa t ion in international meetings, fa irs, and a th le t ic meets, and personal business) is sold up to specified l im i t s. In addition, persons who can certify that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical treatment may pur- chase the necessary foreign exchange. Travelers are permitted to take out up to the Tu rk i sh lira equivalent of US$100 in Turk ish bank notes and coin. Nonresidents may take out w i thout any restriction the unspent portion of the foreign exchange wh ich they brought in. Nonresident travelers who w ish to reconvert liras into foreign currency when leaving the coun t ry are required to present a document showing that foreign exchange had previously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Exports and Export Proceeds12 Exports of all goods from Turkey are free w i t h in the framework of the decree on the Turk ish export reg ime, w i th the exception of those exports wh ich are prohibited by laws and decrees. All transactions of a commerc ial nature concerning exports from Turkey to fore ign coun- tries are carried out in any of f ive way s, as fo l lows: (a) Exports subject to permission. Certain exports, cited below, are subject to permission of the M in is t ry of Commerce: (1) exports of goods imported in compliance w i th provisions laid down by the Tu rk ish import regime or Decree No. 17 on the protection of the va lue of Turkish currency; (2) exports of goods equal in q u a n t i ty and value to those export goods whose delivery has been rejected by the purchaser ow ing to inferior or d i f fe rent quality and which have been returned or promised to be returned to the country by v i r tue of an exchange commitment document; (3) temporary exports; (4) t rans it trade; and (5) re-export trade. (b) Exports subject to license. Exports of goods (classified below), specified in list 6 annexed to the decree on the Turkish export regime and fu tu re sales, are subject to licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce 12The reforms wh ich were announced on December 29, 1983 and came into effect on Janua ry 3, 1984 inc luded a sub s t an t i al s im p l i f i c a- t ion of regulations govern ing export transac t ions. 486 or re levant professional assoc ia t ions13 and issued on the basis of consideration of the requirements of the Turkish economy and market cond i t ions at home and abroad. List of commod i t ies subject to license: (1) Cereals— whea t, b a r l ey, oats, corn, rye, and rice; (2) Oil seeds— o l ive for p roduc ing oil and other oil seeds; (3) Oils—all k inds of l i q u id vegetable oils (exc lud ing canned olive o i l ), bu t te r, and o l ive-o il cake; (4) Fodder—those listed in Law No. 1734 concern ing an imal feed; (5) Livestock and products—sheep and cattle, all k inds of skins (unprocessed, semiprocessed, and f u l ly processed) of an ima ls and fu r s; (6) Minerals —barite ore (unpro- cessed), an t imony ore, all k inds of coal, unworked mee r schaum, c l i p p i n g, t h in meerschaum, onyx (black), iron ore, z inc ore and concentrate, and magnes ium ore; (7) Other products and manufactures—poppy heads, o p i um, all k inds of fer t i l izers, licorice roots, all kinds of f lower b u l b s, cement and c l inke r, and arms and amm u n i t i o n. (c) Exports subject to registration. The Ministry of Commerce subjects exports to registration in the follow- ing cases: exports to certain countries, such as Czecho- s lovak ia, Po land, and U . S . S . R ., under some "special accounts"; exports on consignment or on joint account; exports from free zones or from du ty-free warehouses; and exports on c red i t. Registration is an export permission issued by regis- t ra t ion au tho r i t ies after it is established that the price of the export commod i ty corresponds to home and foreign ma rket prices. To issue th is perm iss ion, the relevant profess ional associations are required to take into ac- count the special market conditions at the target country, t ime of de l ive ry, na tu re, qu a l i ty, and quan t i ty of the export commod i ty, sale cond i t ions, and other similar data. (d) Free exports. Exports of goods wh ich are not subject to e i ther l icense or registration or permission may be effected f ree ly. Exporters are required to complete f ive copies of a registration declaration and submit the declaration d i rec t ly to the customs authorities from where expor ta t ion sha ll be effec ted. (e) Exports under Decree No. 81182. Exports (ex- c lud ing exports on credit and exports of goods specified in list 6 annexed to the decree on the Turkish export reg ime, such as cereals and livestock) under the framework of Decree No. 8/182 on the encouragement of exports, are not subject to either registration or licenses. Exporters are required to bring foreign exchange earn ings to Tu rkey w i t h in three mon ths from the date of exportation and to sell them to an authorized bank in Turkey w i t h in ten days. However, exporters may retain up to 5 percent of these earnings in the form of sight foreign exchange deposit accounts in authorized banks. Such fore ign exchange may be used to make payments 1 ^The r e l ev ant p ro fess ional associations are as fo l lows: Un ions of exporters es tab l ished und er Law No. 3018, and Chambers of Com- merce, Ch amb e rs of I n d u s t ry and Chambers of Commerce and I n d u s t r y, e s tab l i shed u n d er Law No. 5590. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution abroad for the exporters' own import needs, and checks denominated in Tu rk i sh l i ra may be d rawn aga inst such accounts to make domestic p aym en t s. Special p rov is ions apply in the fo l low ing cases: (a) Exports on Consignment. In t h is case, goods are consigned to foreign buye r s, brokers, agents, or repre- sentatives abroad w i thout m ak ing f i n al sale, and goods are left in the ir trus t; at the t ime of expo r t, there are no def in i te buye rs and no de f in i te v a l ue of goods. (b) Exports on Joint Account. Exports on cons ign- ment are carried out w i th the cond i t ion that a m i n i m um price is guaranteed to the seller and the d ifference between the guaranteed price and the sale price is shared between the buyer and seller af ter deduc t ion of the expenses. (c) Exports on Credit. I n d u s t r i al produc ts, b en e f i t ing from tax refund incen t ives under Law No. 261, can be exported on c red i t, provided that fo re ign exchange receipts are collected w i t h in three years from the date of exportation. (d) Temporary Exports. Raw or semiprocessed com- modities, indicated in the list attached to the Tu rk i sh export regu la t ion, can be sent to fo re ign coun t r ies to be processed fu r th e r. (e) Free of Charge Commercial Exports. Comme rc ial exports w i thout qu id pro quo in fo re ign exchange are as follows: exports of samples, g i f t s, ar t ic les for advertise- ments, replacement parts needed w i t h in the gua ran tee period or for goods exported w i th a gua ran tee, and exports to in te rna t ional fa irs and e x h i b i t i o n s. Transit trade and re-export trade operations in con- form i ty w i th in terna t ional comme rc ial practices are conducted in accordance w i th the p rov is ion of Cus toms Law No. 1615 (transit trade regu la t ion and decree on re- exportation). Any comm iss ion-earned by t rans it or re- export trade operations mu st be retained in Tu rkey. Under an export tax rebate scheme, direct and ind i rect taxes paid are re funded, when i n d u s t r i al products are exported. The rates of rebate range from 5 percent to 20 percent of export va lue. The tax incen t ives i n c l u de exemption of export earnings from income and corpora- tion tax. The exemption range is from 20 percent to 30 percent. Export goods are also exempt from the production tax. Proceeds from Invisibles] 4 Firms or i n d i v i d u a ls not in the category of au tho r ized institutions cannot accept foreign exchange from foreign tour is ts and are requ ired to surrender any exchange earnings in the form of fore ign bank notes and t rave le r 's checks to an au thor ized bank w i t h in one mon th of receipt. Otherwise, foreign exchange acc ru ing to resi- dents for services rendered by them to nonres iden ts mu st be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer w i t h in three months from the date on wh i ch the service was TURKEY rendered or w i t h in ten days from the date of acqu is i t ion of the ex ch ang e. Foreign trave lers w i sh ing to take out a r t ic les w i th a v a lue exceed ing LT 15,000 mu st show proof th at they have converted fore ign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceed ing th is l im i t. The import of T u r k i sh bank notes and coin by t rave le rs (w h e t h er of T u r k i sh or foreign na t iona l i ty) is l im i t ed to the T u r k i sh l i ra e q u i v a l e nt of US$100. The import of fo re ign cu r rency by trave lers is un res t r ic ted. Capital15 Foreign inves tmen ts in Turkey require approval. Cap i tal transfers abroad by res iden ts and capital transac- t ions be tween res iden ts and non re s iden ts are subject to the approval of the exchange control au tho r i t ies. Subject to specific pe rm iss ion issued by the M in i s t ry of F inance, res iden ts may a cqu i re fo re ign secu r i t ies. Residents are requ ired to ob ta in pe rm iss ion to acqu ire foreign real estate. W i th the excep t ion of cer ta in inves tmen ts made in accordance w i th the provisions of the Law for the Encou ragement of Foreign Inve s tmen ts or the Petroleum L aw, fo re ign compan ies and contractors who w ish to do bu s ine ss in Tu rkey mu st import the requ i red cap i tal and ope ra t ing f u n ds in the form of foreign exchange, a l though under cer ta in cond i t ions blocked f u n ds may be used for inv e s tm ent in the tou r i st indu s t ry. Borrowing in T u r k i sh liras by such fo re ign companies and contractors is sub ject to quo tas set by the M i n i s t ry of Finance in accordance w i th t h e ir equ i ty cap i tal in Tu rkey, but special f a c i l i t i es ex i st for borrowing from the "Blocked Currenc ies Fund" at the Cen tral B a n k. Blocked f u n ds are those accrued or accruing to nonresidents but not transferab le under the ex is t ing exchange control regu la t ion s. These inc lude the sale proceeds of real estate s i tua ted in Turkey and owned by non res ident phy s ical or j u r i d i c al persons. Except for approved inve s tmen t s, nonres iden ts may not convert into fore ign currency any assets or ba lances owned by them, or ea rn ings acc ru ing to them; all earn ings are blocked but i f, at the end of the calendar year, such earnings are less than LT 10,000, the amount involved is released. Subject to i n d i v i d u al pe rm iss ion, blocked assets and ba lances may be u t i l i z ed w i t h in Tu rkey, for examp le, for the payment of taxes, in su rance, and ma in tenance and repair of p rope r ty, and for l i v i ng expenses of up to LT 30,000 a mon th for each benef ic iary for owners of such f u n ds or th e ir au tho r ized representatives, and up to LT 15,000 for cer ta in r e l a t iv e s. N o rm a l l y, such blocked funds may not be transferred to others except by legal succession. The inves tment of blocked f u n ds in the tou r i st i n d u s t ry is subject to the fo l low ing conditions: ( 1) there mu st be a con t r ibu t ion in new foreign exchange or imported e q u i pm e nt equal to at least 50 percent of the blocked funds to be used and (2) the investor must unde r take not to request t ran s fer for at least f ive years of l 4E x c h a n ge control r egu l a t ions on proceeds from i n v i s i b l es were v i r t u a l ly e l im in a t ed as part of the reforms w h i ch came i n to e f f e ct on J anu a ry 3, 1984. l 5R e g u l a t i o ns on cap i tal movemen ts were s u b s t a n t i a l ly s imp l i f i ed as part of the re fo rms w h i ch came in to e f f e ct on J a n u a ry 3, 1984. 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY that part of the capital financed by means of the blocked fund s. Blocked funds used in th is manner are considered as foreign capital imported under the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Inves tmen ts. A portion of 75 percent of any ho lder's blocked funds can be transferred to the Blocked Currencies Fund at the Central Bank, from wh ich nonresidents may receive credits for their partner companies' inves tment require- ments in Turkey, provided the permission of the M in i s- try of Finance is obtained. Dividends and profits derived from these credits are blocked and are non transferab le. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance w i th the Paris Agreement on Commercial Debts Owed by Residents of Turkey (1959) may be used either partially or who l ly by the creditors for inves tment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any t ime prior to the date, established under the Agreement, when the balances may be transferred. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Inves tmen ts. However, invested funds and income re- lated thereto may not be transferred abroad before the transfer date established under the Agreement, except for investment in export industries or in other industries earning foreign exchange; in such instances, the equ iva- lent of up to 25 percent of the inves tment may be transferred annua l ly. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Inves tmen ts is accorded preferential treatment. All or part of the invested capital or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Upon app l ica t ion, the M in is try of Finance guarantees the transfer of dividends and of the proceeds from the sale or l iqu ida- tion of shares or stock certificates registered on the books of the companies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely transfer- able between foreign na t iona ls, both in Turkey and abroad, and between foreign na t iona ls and residents. The transfer guarantees pass on to the new owner, provided that his name is notified to the M in i s t ry of Finance; if the shares or stock certificates are sold to a resident, however, they must be presented to the M in i s t ry of Finance for cancellation of the guarantees. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey ( inc lud ing those of an agricultural nature) may be accorded the same transfer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Petroleum Law is accorded additional preferential treatment. Foreign investments outside the petroleum sector may be made "under the monetary regulations ," in wh ich case the investor is not entitled to any transfer fac i l i t ies for earnings or liquidation proceeds. Transactions in securities, inc lud ing their export and import, require approval when nonresident interests are involved. There are special fac i l i t ies for the acqu is i t ion of Turkish shares and bonds by Turkish c i t izens wo rk ing abroad. 488 Nonres iden ts and Tu rk ish na t iona ls work ing abroad are no longer perm i t ted to open, or to add to, demand and time accounts w i th commercial banks in convertible Tu rk ish l i r a s, carry ing an exchange guarantee of the Central B a n k. On ex i s t ing accounts, the exchange rate guarantee is l im i ted to the amount of deposits held on March 1, 1978. In add i t ion, 43 banks are permitted to bu i ld up an overall foreign exchange position (in currenc ies purchased and sold by the Central Bank) of up to 10 percent of the exchange receipts from exports and inv i s ib le transactions in the previous year. W i th the exception of borrowing by the Government from fore ign governments or government agencies and from in terna t ional ins t i tu t ions, all private sector and pub l ic sector borrowing abroad is regu la ted. The total amount of private and pub l ic sector borrowing abroad from private sources, in c lud ing supp l iers' credits, is de term ined in an annual program by the M in is t ry of F inance, wh i ch also specifies the eligible sectors and projects. The M in i s t ry of F inance, after consultation w i th other ministries if appropriate, is authorized to approve such credits and to issue a guarantee of the t r an s f e r ab i l i ty of the foreign exchange. It is the responsi- b i l i ty of the in te rmed ia t ing bank to guarantee the repayment in liras. Turk ish borrowers pay that bank the relevant comm iss ions, and expenses up to 1 percent. Regu la t ions issued by the M in is t ry of Finance specify that the m a tu r i ty of such credits mu st not be less than two years and the rate of interest mu st not exceed the London in te rbank offered rate (L IBOR) by more than 2.25 percen t. Gold Residents may hold and acqu ire gold coins in Turkey for n um i sm a t ic purposes. W i th th is exception, residents other than the monetary au thor i t ies and authorized indu s t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than j ew e l ry, at home or abroad; any unworked gold he ld in Turkey, however, may be presented for m i n t i ng by the State M i n t. Gold may be imported f ree ly, provided it is sold to the Central Bank. Exports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Finance; such licenses are not no rma l ly granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary au thor i t ies and indus t r ial users. Changes During 1983 Prescription of Currency and Nonresident Accounts May 1. The b i la te ral paymen ts agreement w i th the Islamic Republic of Iran was renewed for a period of one year. Imports and Import Payments January 5. The import regime for 1983 entered into effect con ta in ing the fo l low ing ma in features: (a) items under 13 tar iff l ines were sh if ted from list II to list I; (b) i tems under 16 ta r i ff l ines were added to the Fund list; (c) items under 26 tar iff lines were added to list II; (d) the import guarantee deposit requ irement applicable to com- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY mercial importers was reduced from 20 percent to 15 percent, and that applicable to indus tr ia l is ts' own imports and to pub l ic sector imports was lowered from 10 percent to 7.5 percent; (e) coal imports were added to the list of goods subject to the special guarantee deposit requirement of 1 percent; and ( f) permission was granted for authorized commercial banks to extend the va l id i ty of import licenses for a period not exceeding 12 mon ths. March 25. Items under 5 tariff lines, comprising construction equ ipmen t, were added to l ist II. May 14. Items under 5 tariff l ines, inc lud ing f l i nt stones, labels, videogames, and man icu re sets, were added to list II. July 1. Items under 3 tariff l ines, consisting of washers and related ma ter ia ls, were added to list II. Exports and Export Proceeds January 12. Exporters were allowed to re ta in, in the form of sight foreign exchange deposit accounts in au thor ized banks, up to 5 percent of foreign exchange receipts from the export of goods and services. Such foreign exchange could be used to make payments abroad for the exporters' own import needs, and checks denominated in Tu rk ish l ira could be drawn against funds in such accounts to make domestic paymen ts. 489 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uganda is the Uganda Sh i l l ing. The off ic ial exchange rate of the Uganda sh i l l ing against the U . S. dollar is determined independen t ly on a da i ly basis by tak ing in to account movements in the exchange va lue of the currencies of Uganda 's other major trad ing partners. The Bank of Uganda rarely deals in foreign cu r renc ies1 other than deutsche ma rk, pounds s ter l ing, U .S. dollars, and Japanese yen. On December 31, 1983 the off ic ial buy ing and selling rates were U Sh 238.08 and U Sh 242.88, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and se l l ing rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the cross rates for the U . S. dollar in the international market. There are two exchange ma rke ts. In the first market ("Window One"), transactions relat- ing to exports of coffee and cotton, off ic ial loans, and petroleum imports are conducted at the off ic ial exchange rate. All other transactions are conducted in the second market ("Window Two") at a rate wh ich is determined at an auction held by the Bank of Uganda at week ly in terva ls. Government m in is t r ies and departments are forbidden to enter the b idd ing process; their quar ter ly access to sales of foreign exchange through W indow Two is subject to a l im it of 30 percent of all such sales. On December 31, 1983 the mid-rate at the second w indow was U Sh 290.00 per US$1. In its foreign exchange dealings, the Bank of Uganda charges a commission of 1.0 percent buy ing and 1.0 percent se l l ing. Authorized commercial banks in Uganda deal in all specified currencies2 at rates quoted by the Bank of Uganda or, for a currency not quo ted, at rates calculated according to preva i l ing cross rates. Authorized banks may, subject to exchange control approval, deal forward w i th customers in s ter l ing, U .S. dollars, and other currencies, provided that there is an unde r ly ing approved import or export contract. Authorized foreign exchange dealers impose a service charge of not more than 0.5 per- cen t. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Bank of Uganda administers exchange control on behalf of the M in is ter of Finance. Import and export control is administered by the M in is t ry of Commerce. The M in is ter of Commerce has powers to proh ib it imports and exports. Prescription of Currency The Bank of Uganda holds reciprocal accounts w i th the central banks of Kenya and Tanzan ia, wh ich are 'Fo re ign currenc ies a re a ll currenc ies other than the Uganda s h i l l i n g. 2A u s t r i an s ch i l l ing s, Be lg ian f ranc s, Canad ian do l la rs, Dan ish and Faeroese kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese y en, Ne the r lands gu i lde r s, No rweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Span ish pesetas, Swed ish kronor, Swiss f rancs, U . S. do l la rs, and a ll currenc ies of the former S ter l ing Area other than the Uganda s h i l l i n g. 490 settled in U . S. dollars. Authorized paymen ts, inc lud ing paymen ts for imports, by residents of Uganda to resi- dents of foreign countries other than Israel and South Afr ica may be made in Uganda sh i l l ings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any other currency that is appropriate to the coun try of residence of the payee. Receipts from such countries may be obtained in Uganda sh i l l ings from an External Account in Uganda or in any convertible currency. Payments to Israel and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Certain settlements with B u r u n d i, Rwanda, and Zaire are channeled through special accounts. External Accounts Accoun ts in Uganda sh i l l ings held by residents of foreign coun tr ies are designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely w i th authorized payments by residents of Uganda, w i th transfers from other Ex ternal Accoun ts, and w i th the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency and gold by nonresidents of Uganda to au thor ized dealers. They may be debited freely for paymen ts to nonresidents, for transfers to other External Accoun ts in Uganda, and for purchases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Non t rans fe rab le funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts maintained w i th commercial banks. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferable beg inn ing five years from the date of purchase. Subject to ind iv idual permis- s ion, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Convertible Currency Accounts Private Ugandan nationals or ins t i tu t ions w i th funds abroad may be authorized to operate Convertible Cur- rency Accounts w i th commercial banks in Uganda. Intending operators of such accounts are required to disclose the sources of the funds and to put up a m i n im um of the equ iva lent of US$5,000 to open the accoun t. These accounts can be freely debited, and other governing regu la t ions are s im i lar to those for the regime of External Accoun ts (see above). The m in imum balance in each such account must be at least US$3,000, below wh ich the account is liable to closure by the Bank of Uganda. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and South Africa are pro- h ib i ted. Most imports are controlled through import l icens ing, and imports financed through Window One are subject to foreign exchange allocations. Import licenses are issued by the Ugandan Advisory Board of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Trade (UABT) under the Minister of Commerce; a commission of 0.5 percent of license va lue is levied by the UABT. These licenses are issued freely for all nonprohibited imports. Imports normally must be pur- chased directly from the country of origin. Documentary evidence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be forwarded to the exchange control authorities w i th in four months from the date of payment in the case of goods shipped by surface transportation, and w i th in two months for goods brought intoNJie country by air. Monthly foreign exchange allocations for^ imports eligible for finance at Window One are prepared by a committee chaired by the Governor of the Bank of Uganda and are approved by the President's Economic Advisory Committee. All bids for foreign exchange through Window Two must be accompanied by bank checks in Uganda shillings equivalent to the total bids at their respective rates. Foreign exchange allocations to various ministries and departments must be backed by documents showing approval of the Central Tender Board, an original budget authorization, and the signature of the Secretary of the Treasury or a du ly designated officer. There has been some accumu la t ion of arrears on payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are subject to approval by the Bank of Uganda; payments to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. For business travel a daily allowance of US$150 a person is granted, up to an annual limit of US$2,000 a person. The m ax imum yearly travel allowance for purposes other than business is US$500 a person. Expatriates working in Uganda may obtain allocations for travel outside Uganda at the time of their overseas leave subject to the terms of the original contract. Foreign exchange is not normally released for nursery, primary, and secondary education abroad, except for post-secondary education. Allowances for post-secondary education abroad are based on estimates of tuition fees, board and lodging, and incidental expenses; foreign exchange is not normally provided when a comparable level of instruction is provided in Uganda. Facilities exist whereby salaried foreign nation- als may remit to their country of origin up to one third of their gross monthly earnings to cover fam i ly mainte- nance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment wh ich includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the contract. At th is time, they may also remit a further US$5,000. Allowances for medical and advertising expenses are considered on a case-by-case basis. Applications to remit profits, d iv i- dends, and interest payments at the second window are automatically approved; however, some arrears incurred on profits and dividends prior to the opening of the dual market remain outstanding. Payments by the private nonbank sector for all other invisible transactions and for certain capital transfers are subject to a combined l im it specified below. UGANDA The export of Uganda bank notes and coin by travelers is prohibited, except that travelers may take out U Sh 3,000 in Uganda currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Exports require licenses from the UABT and may be restricted to ensure suff ic ient supplies for consumption in Uganda. The Uganda Tea Authority has a monopoly over the export of tea, the Coffee Marketing Board over the export of coffee, and the Lint Marketing Board over the export of raw cotton. Export proceeds in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be collected w i th in four months for goods shipped overseas and w i th in two months for goods exported to neighboring countries or by air to any destination, and sold to an authorized bank for Uganda shillings. The authorized bank must in turn surrender these proceeds to the Bank of Uganda w i th in three business days, fa i lure of wh ich entails payment of interest at a rate of 5 percent above the LIBOR. Coffee, cotton, copper, and hides and skins are subject to export du ty. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized bank within 48 hours. The import of Uganda bank notes and coin by travelers is prohibited, except that returning residents may bring in U Sh 3,000 a person. Travelers may freely bring in bank notes denominated in specified currencies and foreign currency traveler's checks. Capital Capital transfers to all countries require individual exchange control approval and those to Israel and South Africa are prohibited. Foreign assets must be deposited w i th an authorized depository, except that residents of Uganda may be granted exemption in respect of specified former Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Residents of Uganda leaving perma- nently may normally transfer their assets up to the equ iva lent of US$10,000 a fam i ly un it from their declared assets. Amounts in excess of this are placed in a Blocked Account and invested in Government of Uganda securities. The principal is transferred after a period of five years; the accrued interest is also released but not remitted. Principal payments on nonguaranteed overseas borrowing by resident companies or individuals are transferable. There are no restrictions on nonguaranteed overseas borrowing by resident companies or individu- als. Foreign investment is permitted in Uganda with or w i thout government participation. Certain industries, such as public u t i l i t ies, transportation, telecommunica- tions, sh ipp ing, and the marketing of key commodities, are wholly reserved for government ownership. In other key industries, such as textiles, brewing, animal feed manufac ture, the dairy indus t ry, and tourism, the Gov- ernment may pre-empt a certain percentage of the 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA ownership but does accept private investment from both domestic and foreign sources. To secure a guarantee of repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Inves tmen ts (Protection) Ac t, 1964; in normal circumstances, ap- proved status is given free ly. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval under the Licensing Act of 1969. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresi- dents of Ugandan securities, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, and the proceeds on resale are normally remittable also. A resident of Uganda may not send money abroad, for whatever purpose, w i thout specific exchange control approval. Prior exchange control approval is required for loans or overdraft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a corporate body resident in Uganda that is controlled, directly or indi- rectly, by persons resident outside Uganda. Payments by the private nonbank sector for all other capital transfers and all invisible payments not specified above are freely permitted up to an aggregate m ax imum allowance of US$500 a person a year, provided there is adequate evidence to support the application. Gold A commemorative gold coin w i th a face va lue of U Sh 500 is legal tender but in practice does not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. W i th th is exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and autho- rized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the M in is try of Finance. Export licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The import of the following from all sources is subject to ind iv idual licensing: jewe lry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or s i lversm i ths' wares, including set gems; bu l l ion in the form of ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coin. Import licenses for gold bullion, gold jewe lry, and gold coin are issued restric- tively and only to goldsmiths. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement June 30. All exports other than coffee and cotton, all non-oil cash imports, and service payments in respect of all newly contracted public and pub l ic ly guaranteed foreign debt were transferred from the official exchange market ("Window One") to the auction exchange market ("Window Two"). July 1. Changes were made in the exchange ar- rangement, as follows: (a) commercial banks were henceforth required to submit to the Bank of Uganda, bank checks in Uganda shillings as backup for their 492 customers' bids for foreign exchange through the second window; (b) government ministries and departments wou ld henceforth be forbidden to make bids for foreign exchange at the second w indow, and their quarterly access to second window sales of foreign exchange wou ld be limited to at most 30 percent of the total of such sales; and (c) foreign exchange allocations to various ministries and departments were henceforth required to be backed by documents showing approval of the Central Tender Board, an original budget authoriza- t ion, and the signature of the Secretary of the Treasury or a du ly designated officer. Imports and Import Payments June 30. A regulation came into effect abolishing the regime of import licenses not involving use of official foreign exchange, w i th the following exceptions: goods brought in by importers with authorized external ac- coun ts, g i f t s, donations, personal effects, capital contri- bu t ions in k ind, imports under contracts involving fu ll or partial external payments in foreign exchange, and imports under aid-financed projects requiring no foreign exchange. All other import licenses were required to specify that foreign exchange would be provided in the regular way; no antedated import licenses without foreign exchange would be accepted. In addition, it was announced that steps would be taken, in cooperation w i th commercial banks, to ensure that goods would be delivered in Uganda after foreign exchange had been granted; in cases where goods failed to arrive, sanctions would be imposed under provisions of the Exchange Control Ac t. July 1. The fo l low ing changes were made in import regulations: (a) the max imum period for importers to produce evidence of importation of goods into the country was reduced from six months to four months in the case of goods shipped by surface transportation, and to two months in the case of goods transported by air; (b) authorization was granted for the private sector to import capital goods (machinery) on a consignment basis by overseas borrowing, subject to approval by the Bank of Uganda; and (c) abolition of the 5 percent bond payable to the Bank of Uganda for imports and reduction of the commission payable to the Uganda Advisory Board of Trade on all imports from 1 percent to !/2 of 1 percent. Payments for Invisibles July I. Changes were made in the regulation on travel allowances, as follows: (a) the daily allowance for official travel was made subject to prior clearance of the journey by the President; (b) for businessmen, the annual l im it on the da i ly allowance of US$150 a person was halved to US$2,000; (c) the annual limit on the travel allowance for purposes other than business was reduced from US$2,000 to US$500 a person a year, subject to proper documentation ( inc lud ing evidence of an airline ticket and presentation of a passport w i th in which travel allowances were to be recorded); and (d) the authoriza- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tion granted to commercial banks to supply foreign exchange for travel and other purposes in amounts of less than US$500 in each case without going through the bidding process at the second window was rescinded. In addition, for all invisible outward payments other than payments for education, medical treatment, expatriates' remittances, profits, dividends, and debt service (as well as travel allowances), the limit on foreign exchange sales in each case was reduced from US$2,000 to US$500 a person a year, subject to proper documentation and approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Uganda. Exports and Export Proceeds July I. The max imum period for the repatriation of export proceeds was reduced from six to four months for goods shipped overseas and to two months for exports to neighboring countries or by air to any destination. UGANDA 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES' (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Un i ted Arab Em i ra tes is the U .A .E. Dirham, which is pegged to the SDR at Dh 4.76190 - SDR 1. The United Arab Emirates has established margins of 7.25 percent around the off ic ial rate; since November 1980, the U .A .E d i rham has maintained an unchanged relationship w i th the U . S. dol- lar, invo lv ing wider margins. The U .S. dollar is the intervention currency, and the Central Bank pub l i shes buy ing and selling rates for the U . S. do l lar on ly. On December 31, 1983 the off ic ial buy ing and se l l ing rates were Dh 3.6690 and Dh 3.6730, respec t ive ly, per US$1. The Central Bank sets no l im i ts on the amount of U .S. dollars that it is prepared to buy from or sell to any commercial bank. Commercial banks are free to enter into foreign exchange transactions at rates of the ir own choosing; the rates quoted by commercial banks for currencies other than the U .S. dollar are determined on the basis of international quo ta t ions. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. There is a swap fac i l i ty at the Central Bank wh ich the commercial banks may use to purchase dirhams spot and sell dirhams forward for periods of one week, one mon th, and three months. For each b ank, m a x im um limits of US$20 m i l l ion ou ts tand ing for one-mon th and three-month swaps and US$10 m i l l ion ou t s t and ing for one-week swaps are in effect. There is also a l im it of US$3 m i l l ion in purchases a day for each bank for one- month and three-month swaps. The United Arab Emirates fo rma l ly accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2 , 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, on February 13, 1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control leg is la t ion nor an exchange control au thor i ty in the Un i ted Arab Em ira tes, and there are no registration requirements for inwa rd or outward transfers. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the authorities of the Em ira te concerned. Prescription of Currency All settlements w i th Israel and South A f r ica are prohibited. No other prescription of currency requ ire- ments are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonres iden ts. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa and Israel are prohibited, as are imports of products manu fac tu red by foreign 'The seven federated states of the Un i ted A rab Em ira tes are Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, A jman, Umm al Qa iwa in, Ras al Kha imah, and Fu ja irah. 494 companies blacklisted by the Arab League. Imports of a few commod i t ies are proh ib i ted from all sources for hea l th or secur i ty reasons. V i r tua l ly all other com- modities may be freely imported w i thout an individual import perm i t, but on ly licensed parties can enter the import trade and an importer can import only the commodities specified in his license. There are no restrictions on the ava i lab i l i ty of foreign exchange for paymen ts in respect of permitted imports. With the exception of specified i tems, imports into the United Arab Emirates are subject to a customs du ty of 4 percent of the c . i . f. va lue. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to South Africa and Israel are p roh ib i ted. V i r t u a l ly all commodities may be exported or re-exported freely and w i thout an export license, to any des t ina t ion, other than South Africa and Israel. Each Em i ra te es tab l ishes its own export regulations. The proceeds from exports need not be repatriated or surrendered and may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency invo lved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles All paymen ts for current inv is ib les may be made f ree ly, w i th the excep t ion of payments to South Africa and Israe l, wh i ch are proh ib i ted. There are no require- men ts governing receipts. Travelers may take out and br ing in any amount in foreign or domestic bank notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or paymen ts by residents or nonresidents. Not less than 70 percent of corporate shares of financial in s t i tu t ions (exc lud ing banks) must be held by nationals or o rgan iza t ions of the Un i ted Arab Emirates; also, the cha i rman and two th i rds of the board of directors must be na t iona ls of the Un i ted Arab Emirates. Profits on foreign capital invested in the United Arab Emirates may be rem i t ted f ree ly. Banks operating in the United Arab Emirates are requ ired to ma in ta in special deposits with the Central Bank equal to 30 percent of their lending in d i rhams to non res ident bank s. In accordance w i th a prior central bank law s t i ll in e f fec t, the profits of certain banks are subject to a fee levied by local authorities at an a n n u al rate of 20 percent. Gold Res iden ts and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any f o rm, at home or abroad. They may also, w i thout a pe rm i t, import and export gold in any fo rm, but the import of gold for trade purposes may be under taken on ly by licensed parties. Gold bullion is exempt from import du ty but jewe lry is not. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments November 7. Under agreement aimed at the promo- tion of customs tariff un iform i ty among member states of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), the Un i ted Arab Emirates introduced a lower-range customs du ty of 4 percent as a GCC reso lu t ion on imported goods, w i th the exception of imports of foodstuffs, medicines, basic raw ma te r ials for local indu s t r ie s, as we ll as other goods wh l ch were already tax free. (The Em ira te of Ras al Kha imah adopted the same reso lu t ion on September 1, 1983.) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 495 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United Kingdom is the Pound Sterling. The authorities of the United K ingdom do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and the exchange rate is determined largely by the balance of market forces. Whether the rate is r is ing or fa l l ing, intervention by the au thor i t ies is l im i ted to smoothing operations to moderate excessive f luc tua t ions and preserve orderly markets. The closing se l l ing and buy ing rates in the foreign exchange market for the U .S. dollar on December 30, 1983 were US$1.4515 and US$1.4525 respectively, per £1. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and w i th residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coin at free market rates of exchange. The United Kingdom forma l ly accepted the obliga- tions of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls have been abolished. The l icens ing of imports and exports is handled mostly by the Department of Trade and Indu s t ry, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized f ie lds. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requ iremen ts. Imports and Import Payments Payments for imports may be made freely. For import licensing purposes, countries outside the Un i ted K ing- dom are divided into ten groups: the ACP A rea ;' the CEFTA Area;2 the Commun i ty Area;3 the Dollar Area;4 the Far Eastern and Western Area;5 the Mediterranean 'The ACP Area comprises A n t i g ua and Ba rbuda, Bahamas, Bar- bados, Be l ize, B e n i n, Bo t swana, B u r u n d i, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central A f r i c an R epub l i c, Chad, Comoros, Congo, D j i b o u t i, Dom in ica, Equatorial Gu inea, E th iop ia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gamb ia, Gh an a, Grenada, Gu in e a, Gu in e a -B i s s au, G u y a n a, Ivory Coast, Jama ica, K e n y a, K i r i b a t i, Lesotho, L ibe r ia, Madagascar, M a l aw i, Ma l i, Mau r i tan ia, Maur i t ius, N iger, Nigeria, Papua New Gu inea, Rw a n d a, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seyche l les, Sierra Leone, Soma l ia, Solomon I s land s, S t. Lu c i a, S t. V i n c e n t, Sud an, Su r in am e, Sw a z i l and, T an z an i a, Togo, Tonga, T r in idad and Tobago, T u v a l u, Uganda, Upper Vo l ta, V a n u a t u, Western Samoa, Zaire, Zamb ia, and Z imbabwe. 2The CEFTA Area comprises A u s t r i a, B e l g i um, D enm a rk, F i n l a n d, France, Federal Repub l ic of Ge rmany and B e r l in (Wes t ), Greece, Ice land, R epub l ic of I re land, I t a l y, L i e ch t en s t e in, Lux embou rg, Ne the r lands, No rw ay, Por tuga l, Sweden, Sw i tze r land, and the U n i t ed K ingdom. 3The C omm u n i ty Area comprises all EC member states. 4The Dollar Area comprises B o l i v i a, Canada, Co lomb ia, Costa R ica, Cuba, Dom in ican R e p u b l i c, Ecuador, El Sa lvador, Gu a t em a l a, Ha i t i, Hondu ra s, Liberia, Mexico, N ica ragua, Panama, P h i l i p p i n e s, United States, and Venezuela. 5The Far Eastern and Western Area comprises A u s t r a l i a, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, and Un i ted States. 496 Area;6 the OCT Area;7 the State Trading Area;8 the Res idual Textile Area;9 and all other countries. With the exception of certain textile goods and all goods exported from A rg en t in a ,10 most imports are admitted under an Open General Import License without restriction, w i th the fo l low ing exceptions as at the end of 1983: (1) from all countries, two commodities or groups of commod i t ies ;11 (2) from the Dollar Area on ly, one group of commodities; (3) from the Dollar Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Residual Textile Area, and the State Trading Area, one commodity; (4) from Romania on ly, one group of commodities; (5) from Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Ber- lin (East), and the U . S . S .R ., one group of commodities; (6) from the State Trading Area on ly, seven commodities or groups of commodities; and (7) from the U .S .S .R on ly, certain l u x u ry and manufactured goods. Individual import licenses are required where goods cannot be imported under the authority of the Open General Import License; some items are subject to surveillance licensing under wh ich import licenses are issued freely on demand to applicants providing certain informa t ion. Most articles subject to specific import licensing can be imported in limited quan t i t ies under bilateral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open ind iv idual licenses, that is, w i thout l im it as to quan t i ty or value. Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, pou l try meat, and dairy products other than butter 6The Med i te r ranean Area comprises Cyprus, Egyp t, Israel, Leba- non, M a l t a, Morocco, Spa in, Tun i s i a, Tu rkey, and Yugoslavia. 7The OCT Area comprises British Antarctic Territory, British Indian Ocean Territory, B r i t i sh V i r g in Is lands, B run e i, Cayman Islands, F a lk l and I s lands and Dependencies, French Po lynes ia, French South- ern and An ta rc t ic Territories, Mayo t te, Montserrat, Netherlands An t i l l es (A rub a, Bonaire, Curasao, St. Eus ta t ius, St. Maarten (South), and Saba ), New Caledonia and Dependencies, P i tca i rn, St. Helena and Dependencies, St. Pierre and M iqu e lon, Turks and Caicos Islands, W a l l is and F u t u na Is lands, and West Indies Associated States (S t. Ch r i s tophe r -Nev is and A n g u i l l a ). 8The State Trad ing Area comprises A l b a n i a, Bu lga r ia, People's Repub l ic of C h i n a, Czechos lovak ia, German Democratic Repub l ic and Be r l in (E a s t ), Hung a ry, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic People's R epub l ic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic Repub l ic, Mongolia, Po land, Rom an i a, U . S . S .R ., and V iet N am. yThe Res idual Tex t i le Area comprises all countries and territories other than Algeria, A rgen t ina, Bangladesh, Bo l iv ia, Brazil, Colombia, El Sa lvado r, Gua tema la, H a i t i, Hong Kong, Ind ia, Indonesia, Islamic Repub l ic of I r an, Jo rdan, Repub l ic of Korea, Macao, Malaysia, M a ld iv e s, Mex ico, N ica ragua, Pak is tan, Paraguay, Peru, Ph i l ipp ines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syrian A rab Repub l ic, Ta iwan ,t Tha i land, U r u g u a y, and those comp r is ing the ACP Area, the CEFTA Area, the Far Eastern and Western Area, the Mediterranean Area, the OCT Area, and the State Trad ing Area. l ( )The res t r ic t ions on t ex t i l es do not app ly to countries in Western Europe, A u s t r a l i a, Canada, New Zea land, or the Un i ted States. "The sk ins of certain rare an im a l s, most pr imary wha le products, and a n um b er of other w i l d l i fe products, i n c l u d i ng raw ivory, tortoiseshell, and p lumage, cannot be imported w i thout an import license issued by the appropriate depar tmen t. Cocoa and cocoa products may be imported on ly if cons ignmen ts are certified that bu f fer stock paymen ts required under the international cocoa agreement of 1980 have been made. tSee Exp lana to ry Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 52. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and cheese are subject to m in imum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed var iab le import levies. Imports of many other agr icu l tura l, ho r t icu l tu ra l, and livestock products are subject to EC regu la t ions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made free ly. Sterling bank notes may be dispatched to nonresidents against payment in sterling or in any foreign currency. For any type of travel U .K. residents can obtain on demand from banks and travel agents such foreign exchange as they may require w i thout l im i ta t ion. The cost of accommoda- tion, fares, etc., can be paid for w i thout l im it in the United Kingdom. Personal checks may be cashed abroad and credit cards may be used w i thout restriction. Travelers may take out any amount in sterling or foreign currency notes. Residents may retain unused travel exchange expressed in foreign currency after re turn to the Un i ted Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are free of export control and there are no requirements affecting export proceeds .12 Under the Tender to Contract Facility of the Export Credit Gua ran- tee Department, exporters b idd ing for major capital projects in U .S. dollars, deutsche mark, or yen may obtain cover against exchange rate f lu c tu a t ions between the submission of their bid and the award of the contract. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in foreign currencies on account of inv is ib les may be retained or may be sold for s ter l ing. B r i t ish and other bank notes may be brought into the Un i ted Kingdom freely. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers by residents of the United K ingdom into the benef ic ial ownership of residents of other countries. All proceeds from the realization, redemption, or ma tu r i ty of sterling capital assets (including direct inves tmen ts) are rem i t ta- ble at the market rate of exchange. Residents of the Un i ted Kingdom who leave w i th the intention of residing abroad may transfer all their assets on departure from the United K ingdom. Repatriates who, having been resident in the Un i ted K ingdom, return to take up residence in any other coun try may transfer all their sterling assets abroad at the market rate of exchange. Investments, whether direct or portfolio, may be freely made in the United K ingdom by nonresidents or abroad by residents. However, cases invo lv ing the takeover of existing U .K. companies that by their size or nature constitute a vital part of Br i t ish indus t ry may be 12Exports of certain commodities are con t ro l led for reasons of national security, an imal we l fa re, na t ional he r i tage, and i n t e r n a t i o n al agreements. UNITED KINGDOM subject to consideration under the provisions of the Fair Trading Act of 1973. The Government also has powers under the Indu s t ry Act of 1975 to prevent or undo undesirable foreign takeovers of important manufac tur- ing under tak ings, but these powers have never been used. There are no restrictions on transactions in sterling or foreign currency securities, wh ich may be exported or imported, w i thout fo rma l i ty. Warrants issued by regis- trars, company secretaries, and paying agents in respect of interest, d iv idend s, and capital payments on securities registered in the names of nonresidents may be dis- patched abroad f ree ly. Banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency bus iness or convert them to sterling, subject to pruden t ial gu ide l ines issued by the Bank of England concerning the l im i ta t ion of risks arising from their foreign exchange exposure. Net spot liabilities in foreign currencies ( i . e ., the net amount of foreign currency resources fund ing s ter l ing assets) form part of a bank's e l ig ib le l iab i l i t ies that are subject to a !/2 of 1 percent non in teres t-bear ing deposit requ irement w i th the Bank of England and may also be subject to calls for special deposits to be placed w i th the Bank. There is currently no special deposit ca l l. Gold Gold b u l l i on and gold coin are not subject to control in the Un i ted K ingdom. Gold sovereigns are legal tender but do not c ircu la te. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to me lt down or break up any metal coin which is for the t ime be ing current in the United Kingdom or w h i c h, h av ing been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The export of gold in manu fac tu red form over 50 years old and valued at £8,000 and over for each item or ma tch ing set of items also requires a license from the Department of Trade and Indu s t ry. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. The U . K. authorities do not in tervene in the market as either buyers or sellers. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments January /. Quotas came into effect for 1983 in respect of (a) imports of textiles and c lo th ing from 24 countries under the MFA III or MFA-type agreements, and (b) imports of woven cotton textiles from 29 nons igna tor ies to the MFA I I I. January 1. Imports of certain radio broadcast receiv- ers, radiograms, and electronic components from Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Po land, Roman ia, and of certain textile and c lo th ing products from Ta iwanf were liberalized. February 8. Imports of long - l i fe m i lk were brought under l icens ing requ i remen ts. (The requirements were l i f ted w i th effect from November 26, see below .) 'See Exp lana to ry Note on Coverage of Part Two, page 52. 497 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM March 4. In line w i th decisions taken w i th in the EC, importation of wafers not yet cut into chips and ger- man ium transistors originating in A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, Democratic Kampuchea, the People's Repub l ic of China, Lao People's Democratic Repub l ic, Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, and Viet Nam was liberalized. April 20. In line w i th decisions taken w i th in the EC, imports of stoneware articles from the Republic of Korea were made subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction retroactive to January 1, 1983. June 10. In the context of the impending implementa- tion by the United K ingdom of the UN convention for physical protection of nuclear material, restrictions on imports of nuclear materials were revised. November 26. The licensing requirements introduced on February 8, 1983 for imports of long-life m i lk were d iscon t inued. December 13. Import restrictions were l if ted on a wide range of kn i t ted goods from Ind ia. 498 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United States is the U .S. Dollar. The U .S. authorities do not maintain margins in respect of exchange transactions, and spot and forward exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply conditions in the exchange markets. However, the authorities intervene when necessary to counter disor- derly conditions in the exchange markets. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. The United States formally notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Department of the Treasury administers licensing programs involving direct or indirect f inanc ial or com- mercial transactions w i th Cuba, Democratic Kam- puchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam or their nationals, as specified under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations and the Cuban Assets Control Regulations. It also has administrative responsibility for blocked accounts of the above coun- tries1 as well as accounts of Estonia, the German Democratic Republic, La tv ia, and L i thuan ia, blocked since World War II under the Foreign Funds Control Regulations.2 The Customs Service of the Treasury Department administers import quotas; such quotas, however, are frequently established and allocated by other agencies. The Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agree- ments, chaired by the Department of Commerce, w i th representatives from other agencies, exercises surveil- lance on imports of textile and apparel and establishes import quotas. Import quotas on specified dairy products are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses. Global quotas on sugar are set on a quarterly basis by the Secretary of Agriculture. For items subject to export control—other than crude petroleum and petroleum products and mun i- tions —the Department of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed under Treasury Department regulations 'Und er the agreement on settlement of c la ims, concluded between the United States and Czechoslovakia in 1981, blocked accounts between the two countries were unb locked in March 1982. Restrictions on payments to the Islamic Republic of Iran, except for payments from Iranian assets blocked as of Janua ry 19, 1981, were revoked on January 19, 1981, pursuant to Executive Orders and regulations issued thereunder. I ran ian assets blocked as of J anu a ry 19, 1981 h av e, w i th limited exceptions, been transferred to the Islamic Republic of Iran or to various escrow accounts as set forth in the January 19, 1981 agreements between the Un i t ed States and the I s lam ic Republic of Iran. for security reasons on transactions involving the author- ities or nationals of Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Islamic Republic of Iran (but see footnote 2), the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet N am. Certain payments to Cuba for support of relatives in Cuba and for transactions related to authorized travel in Cuba are permitted, as are certain payments in connec- tion with travel to and in the United States by Cuban nationals. Remittances to the remitter's close relatives in Viet Nam are also permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam are prohibited under treasury regulations, unless specifically licensed. Import quotas are in effect for (1) cotton, certain cotton waste and products, most dairy products, and peanuts; (2) certain fish and certain potatoes (tariff-rate quotas); (3) sugar and certain sugar products; and (4) certain specialty steel products. Moreover, quotas may be imposed by the President under specified conditions on certain types of meat. Among the quan t i ta- tive import quotas, all except those for peanuts, certain cotton products, butter, oil, sugar and certain sugar products, and certain specialty steel products are on a country-of-production basis. Certain dairy products that are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. Imports of heavywe ight motorcycles are subject to tariff quotas. The United States is a party to the GATT Multifiber Arrangement (MFA) and to 26 bilateral textile agree- ments negotiated in accordance w i th the Arrangemen t's provisions. These agreements control trading partners' exports of textiles and apparel to the United States, and provide for orderly expansion of trade w i thout d isrup t ing U .S. markets for these products. Imports from the agreement and the nonagreement countries are strictly monitored on the basis of certain criteria which enable prompt determination of market disruption and, if necessary, consultations are requested to establish quota limitations. Imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products originating in the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya are prohibited. Imports of a number of manufac tured prod- ucts are also effectively restricted by bilateral agree- ments or by the multilateral procedures of GATT Arti- cle XIX designed to provide temporary relief to certain distressed industries, including those of motorcycles, ferrochrome, mushrooms, cookware, and steel. In addi- tion, Japan restrains exports of automobiles to the United States. The Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) scheme went into operation in the United States in Janua ry 1976 and is scheduled to continue through January 2, 1985. Under a procedure referred to as "graduation," e l ig ib i l i ty 499 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES can be w i thd rawn from certain coun tr ies on a product- by-product basis. Cumu la t ive trea tment under the GSP scheme is extended to members of the Andean Group, of the ASEAN and of CARICOM: cumulation allows two or more member countries of an eligible association to contribute jo in t ly to the requ i rement that at least 35 percent of the value added in a given product shou ld originate in the beneficiary coun t ry. Du r ing the e ight years ended in December 1983, du ty - f ree imports by the United States under the scheme have increased from US$3.2 billion to US$10.8 b i l l ion. Under the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Ac t, 11 coun tr ies and en- t i t ies3 have been designated to receive preferen t ial ta r i ff treatment on specified imports for the period Janua ry 1, 1984 through September 30, 1995. Exports and Export Proceeds Mun i t ions may be exported on ly under license issued by the Office of Mun i t ions Control in the Department of State. Licenses are required for exports of crime control and detection equ ipment as we ll as in s t rumen ts and related technical data to all coun tr ies except other members of the North A t lan t ic Treaty Organization (NATO), Aus t ra l ia, Japan, and New Zea land. The Department of Commerce adm in is te rs controls d i rec t ly on exports from the Un i ted States and on re-exports of goods of U .S. origin from any area. (The Treasury Department administers controls on exports to cer ta in areas of goods of foreign origin by fore ign f i rms that are owned or controlled by U .S. na t iona l s .) All exports to Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, and V iet Nam (w i th the exception of certain pub l i c ly ava i lab le tech- nical data and educational ma ter ia ls, personal baggage, and limited g i ft parcels) are proh ib i ted un less i n d i v i d u- ally licensed by the Department of Commerce. Exports to all other countries except Canada of designated strategic materials and equ ipment requ ire i n d i v i d u al validated licenses from the Department of Commerce. For many commodities, when exported to coun t r ies other than A fghan i s tan, member coun t r ies of the Counc il for Mu tual Economic Ass is tance (CMEA ), Cub a, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Re- pub l ic of Korea, Lao People's Democratic R epub l i c, Socialist People's L ibyan Arab J am ah i r iy a, and V iet N am, single d is t r ibu t ion licenses may be obtained to cover a fu ll year's sh ipmen t. The l icens ing requ i remen ts applicable to Yugos lav ia are less res tr ic t ive than those applicable to other Eastern European coun t r ies. Under the au thor i ty of the Export Adm in i s t ra t ion Act of 1979, the President can suspend the export of goods for reasons of national secu r i ty, foreign po l icy, or short supply in the domestic economy, a l though efforts are made to m in im ize the use of such au tho r i ty. For agricultural commod i t ies, such as whea t, co rn, so rghum, 3Barbados, Costa R i c a, D om i n i c a, Dom in i c an R e p u b l i c, J am a i c a, Panama, Ne the r lands A n t i l l e s, S t. L u c i a, S t. V i n c e nt and the Grenad ines, T r in idad and Tobago, and S t. K i t t s -N e v i s. 500 soybean, and soybean o i l, exporting companies are required to participate in a reporting system that is designed to improve market informa t ion and to allow for more orderly exporting and, thereby, lessen substantially the need for gove rnment in terven t ion. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Paymen ts and transfers abroad may be made freely, except for paymen ts to or for the account of the au tho r i t ies or na t iona ls of Cuba, Democratic Kam- puchea, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, and V iet N am, wh i ch are permitted on ly under l icense .4 U .S. residents are a l lowed to rem it up to US$500 a quarter to close re la t ives in Cuba and US$300 a quarter to close re la t ives in V i et N am. In add i t ion, remittances of up to US$500 to Cuba and US$750 to V iet Nam are allowed to aid in a re la t ive 's em igra t ion from those countries. Certain t ransac t ions in connection w i th authorized travel in Cuba are perm i t ted. Receipts from Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Repub l ic of Korea, and V iet Nam are generally proh ib i ted, except as au tho r ized. I n d i v i d u a ls leav ing or entering the country w i th more than US$5,000 in domestic or foreign cu r rency, t rave le r 's checks, money orders, or bearer- form nego t iab le securities must declare these to the cus toms at the po int of ex it or en t ry. Capital Incom ing or ou tgo ing capital paymen ts by residents or nonres iden ts are not subject to exchange control. In add i t ion, inwa rd and ou twa rd direct or portfolio invest- ment is gene ra l ly free of any other form of approval r equ i r em en t. Inve s tmen ts invo lv ing ownersh ip interest in banks are sub ject to federal and state banking regu la t ion s. However, as noted above, there are restric- t ions on certain transactions w i t h, or invo lv ing, Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Democratic People's Re- pub l ic of Korea, and V iet Nam (see footnote 4 concern- ing the Is lam ic Repub l ic of I r an ). In add i t ion, there are certain reporting requ iremen ts for travelers entering or l e av ing the coun t ry when they are carrying more than US$5,000 in cash or negotiable ins t rumen ts (as well as corresponding reporting requ i remen ts for shipment of currency or bearer assets th rough the ma i ls ). In addition, owne r sh ip of U . S. fa rm land by foreign na t iona ls or by U . S. corporations of wh i ch 5 percent or more is foreign- owned mu st be reported to the U .S. Department of Ag r i cu l tu r e. Certain states in the Un i ted States impose v a ry ing res tr ic t ions on purchases of land w i th in their borders by fore ign na t iona ls. Member banks are discouraged by the Federal Reserve Board from so l ic i t ing or encourag ing placement of deposits by U . S. residents at the ir foreign branches, 4Cer ta in p a ym e n ts and t ran s fe rs to the Gove rnment of the Is lam ic R e p u b l ic of I r a n, i ts i n s t r um e n t a l i t i e s, and con t ro l led en t i t ies i n v o l v i ng s tand -by le t te rs of c r ed i t, pe r fo rmance bonds, and s im i l ar ob l iga t ions w i th the I s l am ic R e p u b l ic of Iran con trac ted prior to J anu a ry 20, 1981 are sub ject to r e s t r i c t ion s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution unless such deposits are placed to serve a definite, necessary purpose outside the United States. The foreign currency positions of banks, whether overall or with respect to individual currencies, are not subject to prudential limitations of a quantitative nature, but banks are expected to follow normal bank ing practices and not maintain imprudent positions. U .S. agencies and branches of foreign banks as well as domestic banks are subject to reserve requirements by the Federal Reserve system. Beginning December 3, 1981, U .S. chartered deposit- ory institutions, U .S. offices of Edge and Agreement Corporations,5 and U .S. branches and agencies of foreign banks may establish international banking facil- ities (IBFs) in the United States. IBFs may accept deposits only from foreign residents (including foreign offices of domestic banks), from other IBFs, or from the institution establishing the IBF. Such funds are exempt from reserve requirements of Regulation D and from interest rate limitations of Regulation Q. For nonbank foreign residents, the m in imum maturity or notice requirement is two business days, and the m in imum transaction amount is US$100,000. Funds raised by an IBF may be used only to extend credit to foreign residents (including foreign offices of domestic banks), to other IBFs, or to the entity establishing the IBF. Credit may be extended to nonbank foreign residents only if the proceeds are used to finance operations of the borrower or its affiliates outside the United States. Advances from an IBF to its establishing entity in the United States are subject to Eurocurrency requirements in the same manner as advances to the establishing entity from the en t i ty's foreign offices. A number of ind iv idual states (but not the Federal Government) have granted favorable tax treatment under state or local law to IBF operations. In addition, federal legislation was enacted to exempt deposits at IBFs from FDIC insurance coverage and assessments. Gold U .S. citizens or residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, except for certain gold transactions ( e .g ., imports or exports) involving Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, the Demo- cratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet Nam. Commercial banks may deal in gold bullion and gold coin, w i th the same exceptions. Treasury licensing for importers, exporters, producers, refiners, and processors of gold is not required, with the same country excep- tions. Producers of gold may sell their output in the free market, with the same country exceptions. Gold may be freely imported except from the countries mentioned above and except counterfeit gold coins. U .S. gold coins are legal tender at their face value. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are free of quantitative restriction but are subject to import du ty at a 5These are defined as domestically chartered corporations authorized to engage in international banking and f inanc ial opera t ions. UNITED STATES rate of approximately 12 percent. There is no duty on gold ore, bullion, or coin. All forms of gold must be declared at the point of entry into the United States. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments January 15. The United States imposed unilateral quotas on imports of textile and clothing products from the People's Republic of China, following failure to reach bilateral agreement on regulating such imports to replace the agreement which expired on December 31, 1982. (The unilateral quotas continued in effect un t il August 1983, when a four-year textile agreement was negotiated with the People's Republic of China for the period January 1, 1983 through December 31, 1987.) March (Different dates), he United States and Japan made separate commitments aimed at ensuring mutual access to trade and investment opportunities in high technology industries; the commitments included plans to open government-sponsored research and develop- ment projects to participation by enterprises in both countries. April 13. An agreement on fisheries was concluded between the United States and the German Democratic Republic. April 15. The President signed Proclamation 5050 imposing duty increases and tariff quotas for a period of five years on the imports into the United States of certain heavyweight motorcycles. The additional ad valorem duties on imports of such motorcycles were set at 45 per- cent in the first year, to be reduced to 35 percent, 20 per- cent, 15 percent, and 10 percent in each of the subsequent four years. The tariff quotas were fixed at 5,000 units (increasing yearly to 6,000, 7,000, 8,500, and 10,000) for imports from the Federal Republic of Germany, and 4,000 units (increasing by 1,000 yearly) for imports from all other countries except Japan. The tariff rate quota for Japan was set at 6,000 units, increasing by 1,000 un i ts annua l ly. These measures were taken following the determination of the U .S. Interna- tional Trade Commission (USITC) that imports had increased in such quantities as to constitute a threat of serious in ju ry to the domestic industry producing similar products. May 3. The Administration transmitted to Congress its request for extension, un t il July 1, 1984, of the 1976 fishery agreements w i th the U . S . S .R. and Poland. May 4. The Administration transmitted to the Senate, for the latter's advice and consent to ratification, a treaty on U .S. participation in the new International Coffee Agreement to begin October 1, 1983 for a period of six years. May 11. The Administration transmitted to the Sen- ate, for advice and consent to ratification, the Eastern Pacific Ocean Tuna Fishing Agreement between the United States, Costa Rica, and Panama. June 3. The Administration transmitted to Congress its request for a further extension for 12 months of the waiver of subsections (a) and (b) of Section 402 of the 501 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES Trade Act of 1974 for Hunga ry, the People's Repub l ic of China, and Romania. (This section of the Trade Act specified that most-favored-nation status could not be given to countries w i th nonmarket economies that denied the right to free emigration .) June 28. The President signed Proclamation 5071, establishing zero quotas for imports of certain types of sugar, syrup, blend, and m ix tures under U .S. Tariff Schedule Nos. 155.75, 156.45, 183.01, and 183.05. The measures were taken in light of determination by the U .S. Department of Agr icu l ture (USDA) that imports of the specified items were practically certain to interfere with the USDA's price support program for sugar. The quotas would continue in effect pending action that the President might take on a report and recommendation of the U .S. International Trade Commission. July 11. It was announced that for the period up to August 11, 1985, imports of specified pr in ted, v i sua l, and auditory materials, certain tools for sc ien t if ic appa- ratus, and certain articles for blind or other handicapped persons would be imported du ty free. (These articles were among those covered by the Florence agreement of UNESCO, which came into force on May 21, 1952.) July 19. The President signed Proclamation 5074, imposing, for a period of four years, du ty increases and global quotas on the importation into the Un i ted States of certain specialty steel products. The additional tariff on stainless steel sheet and strip was fixed at 10 percent ad valorem in the first year, dec l in ing by 2 percentage points each year to 4 percent in the four th year. Stainless steel plate was made subject to an additional tariff of 8 percent ad valorem in the first year, dec l in ing to 6 percent, 5 percent, and 4 percent in the subsequent three years. For stainless steel rod, imports were limited in the first year to 19,100 tons, increasing by 3 percent annua l ly in the subsequent three years. For stainless steel bar, imports were limited to 27,000 tons in the f irst year, increasing by 3 percent annua l ly in each of the subse- quent three years. Imports of alloy tool steel were l im i ted to 22,400 tons in the first year, increasing by 3 percent annua l ly in each of the subsequent three years. These limits were imposed following a f ind ing by the U .S. International Trade Commission (USITC) of serious in jury to the domestic indus t ry by imports. The U .S. Trade Representative was authorized to negotiate orderly marketing agreements w i th supplier countries and has done so w i th seven countries. July 27. The United States and Japan, through an exchange of diplomatic notes, put into effect an ar- rangement providing for issuance of certificates of origin verifying that stainless steel and other nickel-bearing materials exported from Japan to the United States did not contain nickel of Cuban or ig in. August-September (D ifferent dates). In l ieu of the imposition of formal import quotas, the Un i ted States concluded arrangements w i th Aus t ra l ia (September 8), Canada (August 17), and New Zealand (September 9), under wh ich these countries agreed to l im it the ir exports of meat to the United States du r ing 1983. 502 September 20. Executive Order No. 12441 amended the U .S. Generalized System of Preferences. October 4. The Administration transmitted to the Senate, for advice and consent to acceptance, an Amend- ment to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), concluded in Wash ing ton, March 3, 1973. The Amend- ment provided for accession to CITES by regional economic integration organizations as well as by the European Commun i t ies. (The Amendment was adopted by CITES Parties in Gaborone, Botswana on April 30, 1983.) November 18. A trade agreement was concluded with Jamaica, under wh ich the United States would receive 1 million metric tons of baux i te for its strategic stock- p i le, in exchange for U .S. exports of dairy products to Jama ica. The first 400,000 metric tons of Jamaican baux i te would be exchanged for 11,340 metric tons of skimmed m i lk powder and 2,855 metric tons of butter oil, valued at US$13.6 m i l l ion. (The countertrade component of the rema in ing 600,000 metric tons of baux i te was to be determined at a fu ture date.) November 21. The Treasury Department prohibited from entry into the Un i ted States, beginning December 22, 1983, all unfabricated nickel-bearing materials im- ported directly or indirectly from the U . S . S .R ., un t il authorization of disposition by license. The order was issued because of reason to believe that the materials contained Cuban nickel banned from entry into the Un i ted States under the Trading with the Enemy Act, Section 5(b). November 30. Pu rsuant to Section 212 of the Carib- bean Basin Economic Recovery Act (CBERA), the President designated the following 11 Caribbean Basin countries and entities as beneficiaries of the trade- l ibera l iz ing measures provided for in this Act: Barbados, Costa R ica, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Panama, Ne ther lands An t i l les, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, and St. Kitts- Nev is. Imports from the designated countries and entities (other than products statutorily excluded) would be granted du ty-free treatment for a period beginning Janua ry 1, 1984 to September 30, 1995. The designation also qualified these countries and entities as sites for conventions in respect of wh ich expenses were eligible for tax deduction under Section 274(h) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, provided that the countries entered into an exchange of information agreement with the Un i ted States on tax matters. The President also signed Proclamation No. 5133 mod ify ing the Tariff Schedules of the Un i ted States, effective January 1, 1984, in order to permit implementation of the duty-free treatment ins t i tu ted under the CBERA. December 16. The Wh i te House announced internal U .S. Government criteria for review of imports of certain textile or apparel products from particular sources, to determine the existence of market disruption or threa t. Under the cr i ter ia, the Government would review imports when (a) total growth in imports in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution particular product or category should be more than 30 percent in the most recent year, or the ratio of total imports to domestic production in the product or cate- gory should amount to 20 percent or more; and (b) imports from a particular foreign country supplier should equal 1 percent or more of the total U .S. production of that product or category. As regards countries w i th which Export Authorization Arrangements had been concluded, calls on each sup- plier would be made on any product or category when export authorizations issued in that particular product or category had reached 65 percent of the specified Max- imum Formula Level (MFL) or, in the opinion of the Chairman of the Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements (CITA), would exceed the MFL level in the absence of such a call or if the product should be in a category w i th an import-to-production ratio of 20 percent or more, or in categories w i th an increase of 30 percent or more. December 19. The President signed Proclamation No. 5140, permitting implementation of bilateral agree- ments concluded w i th Spain and Japan on J u ly 29, 1983 and September 6, 1983, respectively. The agreements would amend the U .S. tariff schedule to reduce tempo- rarily tariffs on imports of several miscellaneous prod- ucts principally supplied by Spain and Japan; the reductions were in compensation for the import du t ies imposed by the United States in 1980 on imports of nonelectric cookware of steel, enameled or glazed w i th vitreous glass (porcelain-on-steel cookware). December 22. The President signed Proclamation No. 5141, wh ich revoked specific l icens ing require- ments for imports of petroleum and petroleum products. Exports and Export Proceeds January 16. The United States entered into an agree- ment w i th Egypt to deliver 1 m i l l ion metric tons of wheat flour over a 12-14 month period from March 1983. To this effec t, the United States Department of Ag r icu l tu re (USDA) undertook to provide wheat from stocks held by the U .S. Commodity and Credit Corporation (CCC) to U .S. flour suppliers suff ic ient to enable them to bid for sale and delivery to Egypt at the agreed price. Three-year f inanc ing for this sale was guaranteed by the CCC. April 13. An agreement on fisheries was signed between the United States and the German Democratic Republic. May 3. The Adm in i s t ra t ion transm i t ted to Congress its request for extension, un t il Ju ly 1, 1984, of the 1976 fishery agreements w i th the U .S .S .R. and Poland. May 11. The Administration transmitted to the Sen- ate, for advice and consent to ra t if ica t ion, the Eastern Pacific Ocean Tuna Fishing Agreement between the United States, Costa Rica, and Panama. June 1. In implementation of the Export Trading Company Act of October 1982, the Federal Reserve Board specified, inter alia, that bank ho ld ing companies would be authorized to set up export trading companies only if at least one half of the net revenue of such a UNITED STATES company was derived from export operations over a two- year period. July 28. The Administration announced agreement between the United States and the U .S .S .R. on a new Long-Term Grain Agreement to commence on Octo- ber 1, 1983 and covering a period of five years. (The ex is t ing agreement expired on September 30, 1983.) The terms of the new agreement specified, inter alia, that the U .S .S .R. would purchase a m in imum of 9 million metric tons of grain annua l ly from the United States, in approximately equal quantities of wheat and corn. August 22. The U .S. Commerce Department an- nounced termination of export licensing requirements for the sale of pipe-laying tractors to the U .S .S .R. October 14. Execu t ive Order No. 12444 was issued, providing for con t inua t ion of export control regulations which would otherwise have ended following the expira- tion of the Export Administration Act of 1979. For purposes of national security and the conduct of foreign po l icy, th is Act imposed certain restrictions on access of foreign parties to U .S. commercial goods, technology, and technical data and prohibited U .S. persons from comp ly ing w i th certain boycott practices by foreign nations. (Execu t ive Order No. 12451 of December 20, 1983 revoked Execu t ive Order No. 12444 of October 14, 1983 in view of the extension by Public Law No. 98-207 (December 5, 1983) of the power conferred under the Export Adm in i s t ra t ion Act of 1979.) November 18. A trade agreement was concluded with Jama ica, under wh ich the Un i ted States would receive 1 m i l l ion metric tons of baux i te for its strategic stockpile in exchange for U . S. exports of dairy products to Jama ica. The first 400,000 metric tons of Jamaican baux i te wou ld be exchanged for 11,340 metric tons of skimmed m i lk powder and 2,855 metric tons of butter o i l, va lued at US$13 .6 m i l l ion. (The countertrade component of the rema in ing 600,000 metric tons of baux i te was to be determined at a fu tu re date .) November 23. Export l icens ing procedures were eased for exports of certain h igh technology products to the People's Repub l ic of Ch ina. The products included medium-scale ma in f rame computers, most commercially available small bus iness microcomputers, most instru- ments incorporating d ig i tal computers, printed circuits, electronic ca l ibra t ion equ ipmen t, ins t rumen ts w i th em- bedded microprocessors, seismic and magnetic record- ers, and cathode-ray oscilloscopes. December JO. The prohibition on exports of military equ ipment to Argen t ina was l i f ted. Capital September 8. The President transmitted to the Senate, for advice and consent to ra t if ica t ion, the Convention signed at Wash ing ton on April 27, 1983 between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Denmark for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Estates, Inheritances, G i f ts, and specified other t rans fe rs. 503 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES September 21. The President transmitted to the Sen- ate, for advice and consent to ra t i f ica t ion, a Protocol signed at Ottawa on June 14, 1983 amend ing the Convention between the United States and Canada concerning taxes on income and on capital. November 7. The President transmitted to the Senate, for advice and consent to ra t i f ica t ion, the Convention signed at Stockholm on June 13, 1983 between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Sweden for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Estates, Inheritances, and G if ts. November 16. The President transmitted to the Sen- ate, for advice and consent to ra t if ica t ion, a Procotol (signed on behalf of the two governments on August 23, 1983) amend ing the Convention between the Govern- ment of the Un i ted States and the Government of Denmark on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion w i th Respect to Taxes on Income. 504 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Upper Volta is the CFA Franc ,1 which is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 - F 0.02. The official buying and selling rates are CFAF 50 = F 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate between the French franc and the CFA franc. The BCEAO levies a commission of 0.10 per mill for transfers from countries outside the West African Monetary Union and one of 2.50 per mill for transfers to such countries.2 Banks levy a commission of 2.50 per mill on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Un ion, part of wh ich must be surrendered to the Treasury. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. With the exception of measures relating to gold and to the repatriation of export proceeds, Upper Volta's exchange controls do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Benin, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries are considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of the Treasury in the Directorate-General of the Treasury and of Public Accounts in the Ministry of Finance. The approval authority in respect of exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward exchange cover, opening of external accounts in foreign currency, and business travel allocations in excess of CFAF 400,000) has been delegated to the BCEAO and, within limits specified in the exchange control regula- tions, to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO also is authorized to collect, either directly or through banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, ministe- rial officials, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Admin- istration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Commerce and Prices in the Ministry of Commerce, Industrial Devel- opment, and Mines. Import certificates for liberalized 'The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Ben in, Ivory Coast, N iger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2Transfers between member countries of the Un ion are subject to a flat commission of CFAF 100 levied on settlements between agencies of the BCEAO. commodities and export attestations are made out by the importer or exporter himself and, when settlement takes place w i th a country outside the French Franc Area, are visaed by the customs administration. Prescription of Currency Since Upper Volta is an Operations Account country, settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Current transactions with The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally settled through the West African Clearing House. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China, the Federal Repub- lic of Germany, and Ghana3 are channeled through special accounts. Settlements w i th all other countries are usua l ly effected either through correspondent banks in France, or the country concerned, in any of the curren- cies of those countries, or in French francs (or in other currencies of the French Franc Area) through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed to the BCEAO agency in Ouagadougou by an authorized bank's foreign corre- spondent. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident ac- counts of BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, or bank notes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Trea- sury is prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be debited, without prior authorization, with the value of BCEAO bank notes mailed directly by authorized inter- mediaries to their foreign correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from any country for commercial purposes and under any customs regulations may be made freely; however, for the purpose of monitoring, prior acquisition of an official import document may be necessary for imports exceed- ing an amount specified by the Minister of Commerce: an import license for products subject to quota and a prior import authorization for all other products. Imports of any product may require prior acquisition of a special authorization, depending on the circum- stances. Noncommercial imports require special authori- zation, delivered in advance by the competent services of the Ministry of Commerce. Imports of goods subject to 3A bilateral agreement was negotiated w i th Ghana in 1970 but is inoperative. 505 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA special controls require the prior approval of the Minister of Commerce. On the other hand, imports of certain products, a list of wh ich is established by decree, may be freed from the import document requirement. The Minister of Commerce may, on the basis of criteria established by his M i n i s t r y, wa ive the prescribed for- malities for imports from countries w i th wh ich Upper Vo l ta has concluded a customs un ion or free trade area agreement. Most imports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percen t, an import surcharge of 6 percent, and a statistical du ty of 3 percent. All import transactions re la t ing to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an au thor ized bank when the ir va lue exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses or import certificates en t i t le importers to purchase the necessary exchange not earlier than e ight days before sh ipmen t, if a documentary credit is opened, on the due date for paymen t, if the commodities have already been im- ported, or at the time of the payment on account, if such a payment has to be made prior to the import. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts to South Afr ica are proh ib i ted. Pay- ments for inv is ib les to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to exchange control approval, wh ich for many inv is ib les has been delegated to the authorized b ank s. Au tho r ized banks and the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion are empowered to make paymen ts up to CFAF 50,000 a t rans fer to fore ign coun tr ies on beha lf of residents w i thout requ i r ing j u s t i f i- ca t ion. Paymen ts for inv i s ib les related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac t ion has been approved or does not require au tho r iza t ion. Trans- fers of income acc ru ing to nonres iden ts in the form of prof i ts, d iv idend s, and roya l t ies are also perm i t ted. Residents t rave l ing for tourism to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries may purchase exchange equ iva lent to CFAF 175,000 a person a tr ip (CFAF 87,500 for ch i ldren under ten years) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 rema in- ing after return to Upper Vo l ta must be surrendered. The basic allocation for travel abroad for bus iness purposes is the equ iva lent of CFAF 20,000 a d ay, w i th a m ax imum of CFAF 400,000 a t r ip. Res iden ts trave l ing to foreign countries may take out up to a m a x im um of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of other Operations Account countries. Res iden ts t rave l ing to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO bank notes, but if proceeding to a coun try that is not a member of the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion, they mu st declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign bank notes up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 175,000 or any larger amoun t, if declared upon en try or acquired by d raw ing on a Foreign Account in Francs, or an Account in 506 Foreign Currency, or by exchange of foreign traveler's checks, etc. They may also take out any foreign means of payment other than bank notes acquired in Upper Volta by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency, subject to submission of documen ta t ion. F ina l ly, they may take out freely up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank notes, French bank notes, and bank notes of Operations Account countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports from Upper Volta may be made free ly. However, for the purpose of monitoring, exports or re-exports of certain products may require prior official authorization by the competent services of the M in is try of Commerce, except in the case of certain goods, a list of wh ich is established by decree. In accordance w i th criteria defined by the Minister of Commerce, exports of certain products may be subject to special regu la t ions. Exports of any product may require prior special authorization from the competent services of the M in is try of Commerce, depending on circum- stances. However, the Minister may, on the basis of criteria established by his m in is t ry, waive all formalities on exports of goods when their destination is a country w i th wh ich Upper Volta has concluded a customs union or free trade area agreement. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in one month of the date on which the payment fa l ls due (the due date stipulated in the commercial contract, wh ich must not, in principle, be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their des t ina t ion ). All export transactions relating to foreign coun tr ies, inc lud ing countries in the French Franc Area, must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when their va lue exceeds CFAF 500,000, and the exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment and submit a customs certification. Most exports are subject to a customs stamp tax of 6 percent and a statistical du ty of 3 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Ac- count countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets mu st be collected and surrendered w i th in two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings may not be received in or from South Afr ica. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount of bank notes and coin issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bank notes and coin (except gold coin) of countries ou ts ide the French Franc Area. Resident travelers must declare to the customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 5,000 that they bring in and must surrender these to an authorized bank w i th in eight days af ter re tu rn. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Capital All capital movements between Upper Volta and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Upper Volta and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are free of ex- change control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted free ly. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward inves tmen t, and over the issu ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper Volta. Such operations require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Upper Voltan Govern- ment and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, advertising, or sale in Upper Volta has already been authorized. W i th the exception of controls over foreign securities, these measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, member countries of the West A f r ican Mone- tary Un ion, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit w i th foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All the special provisions described in this paragraph apply only to transactions and not to the associated payments or collections. All investments abroad by residents of Upper Volta require prior authorization by the Minister of F inance ,4 and unless specifically exempted by the Minister of Finance, 75 percent of such investments must be financed from foreign currency borrowings abroad. Foreign direct investments in Upper Volta5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The M in is ter has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration dur ing wh ich he may request postpone- ment of the project. The fu ll or partial l iqu ida t ion of either type of investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Upper Voltan invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Upper Vo l ta, must be reported to the Minister of Finance. Direct investments constitute investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not consid- ered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 percent of the capital of a company whose 4I n c l u d i ng those made through foreign companies that are d irec t ly or ind irec t ly controlled by persons in Upper Vo l ta and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Upper Vo l ta. 5Inc lud ing those made by companies operating in Upper Volta that are d i rec t ly or ind i rec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Vo l ta of fore ign compan ies. UPPER VOLTA shares are quoted on a stock exchange. Foreign firms operating in Upper Volta in v i tal or priority sectors are required to have Upper Voltan participation in their capital of at least 51 percent and of at least 35 percent in all other sectors. The sale to residents of Upper Volta of securities of foreign companies operating in Upper Volta requires prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is ter of Finance, who establishes the sale va lue. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The fo l low ing are, however, exempt from th is authorization: (1) loans con s t i tu t ing a direct inves tmen t, wh ich are subject to prior dec lara t ion, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by indu s t r ial f i rms to f inance transactions abroad, by any type of f i rm to f inance imports into or exports from Upper Vo l ta, or by international trading houses previously approved by the Minister of Finance to f inance international merchan t ing transactions; (3) loans contracted by au thor ized banks; (4) loans other than those men t ioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans, in c lud ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 100 m i l l ion for any one bor- rower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds are immediately surrendered by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of loans not cons t i tu t ing a direct inves tment requires the special authorization of the M in is ter if the loan itself was subject to such approval but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special au thor iza t ion. Lend ing abroad is subject only to ex- change control au thor iza t ion by the BCEAO, acting on behalf of the M in is ter of F inance. The Inves tment Code provides preferential treatment for foreign investment in Upper Volta. Two preferential categories (A and B) are es tab l ished, in accordance w i th wh ich preferential treatment w i th respect to stable rates of taxes, du t ie s, and other f iscal charges may be accorded to specified enterprises for periods of up to 20 years. The bene f i ts under Category B are more liberal than those und er Category A; they are negotiable between the investor and the Government, and the enterprise accorded such benef i ts must be of exceptional importance to the deve lopment of the coun try. Gold Residents are free to ho ld, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Upper Vo l ta. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is ter of Finance. Exempt from th is requ irement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as go ld-f i l led or gold-plated .articles); and (3) imports and exports of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams by travelers. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. 507 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments October 27. Order No. 83-109/CNR/PRES was an- nounced, making a number of changes in the foreign trade system. November 2. Decree No. 83-237/CNR/PRES was promulgated, defining the mode of implementation of the Order announced on October 27, 1983. Exports and Export Proceeds October 27. Order No. 83-109/CNR/PRES was an- nounced, making a number of changes in the foreign trade system. November 2. Decree No. 83-237/CNR/PRES was promulgated, def in ing the mode of implementation of the Order announced on October 27, 1983. 508 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan New Peso. Until October 1978 Uruguay maintained a dual exchange market, the commercial market and the f inanc ial market, but the two markets were un i f ied de facto in Octo- ber 1978 when the Central Bank announced that it stood ready to buy and sell any amount of exchange at rates to be adjusted in variable amounts at f requent intervals. With effect from November 28, 1979 the commercial and financial markets were unified de jure. On Decem- ber 26, 1978 the Government announced that the new peso would be depreciated each month according to a preannounced peso-U.S. dollar relationship for a num- ber of months. This preannounced exchange rate system was replaced on November 26, 1982 by a f loa t ing exchange rate system. Buy ing and selling interbank rates for the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, on December 31, 1983, were NUr$43.00 and NUr$43 .25, respectively, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on U .S. dollar rates in exchange markets abroad. Export proceeds are not required to be surrendered to the Central Bank. There are no limits on the amount of foreign exchange that the Central Bank may sell to or buy from the Bank of the Repub l ic, commercial banks, and banking houses. Uruguay formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 2, 1980. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through autho- rized banks, banking houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Any person or firm may conduct exchange transactions in the market. Exchange houses must be authorized by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments between U ruguay and the countries w i th which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agree- ments may be made through accounts maintained w i th each other by the central banks, within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the Latin American Integration Association (LAIA); these countries are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. There are separate arrangements for trade in specified goods w i th Argentina and Brazil. Settlements w i th other countries are made in U .S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration before the goods are shipped. The registrations are generally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. Most imports are subject to import surcharges. The surcharge rates are 10, 15, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, and 50 percent and are payable to the Bank of the Republic at the time of registration. The Bank of the Republic also collects consular charges. Full or partial exemption from these surcharges is granted for imports from member countries of the LAI A, for imports of agricultural inpu ts, for imports by the public sector, for imports of capital goods, and for imports under the temporary admission scheme. Most imports are subject to a customs tariff (impuesto aduanero unico, iMADUN i) and a service charge (tasa de movilizacion de bultos, TMB), collected by the Customs Office. Tariff rates vary between 0 percent and 15 percent. The service charge is 1 percent of the c . i . f. import price for most imports. There are exemptions to the IMADUNI and the TMB. Most imports are subject to consular charges payable in new pesos and calculated on the f .o .b. va lue. These charges are 3.5 percent for private sector imports of petroleum and petroleum products, alcohol, and tetraethyl lead; 0.25 percent for imports of the same commodities by the state oil, alcohol, and cement enterprise (ANCAP ); 0.5 percent for other imports by ANCAP; and 4 percent for all other private sector imports. Import surcharges are calculated either on an off ic ia l ly assessed price (precio de referenda or precio minimo de exportation], which usua l ly is expressed in U .S. dollars a kilogram, or on the actual c . i . f. value, whichever is h igher. Payments for Invisibles There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic bank notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be sold to the banks not later than 36 months after the expiration date of shipping documents. Exporters of nontraditional exports are eligible for rebates in respect of indirect taxes paid du r ing the production process; such rebates, which replaced the system of tax credit certificates with effect from January 1, 1983, averaged out at 6.2 percent of the f .o .b. value of nontraditional exports dur ing 1983. Export of cattle on the hoof requires authorization from the Ministry of Agriculture. Exports of specified miner- als ( inc lud ing iron, copper, zinc, a lum inum, and nickel) are prohibited. Traditional exports, w i th the exception of combed wool, are subject to an export tax at the rate of 10 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements on the proceeds from invisibles, and there are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic bank notes. 509 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Capital Inward and outward private capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely, w i th the exception of certain inward and outward transfers relat- ing to investments registered under the Foreign Invest- ment Law. The amortization or l iqu ida t ion proceeds of foreign capital registered under th is law cannot normally be transferred abroad un t il three years after the date on which the investment was approved. Gold Residents may freely purchase, ho ld, and sell gold in any form in Uruguay or abroad. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments January 5. Decree 5/83 was introduced, applying a graduated surcharge system on imports classified as "dumped"; the surcharge was defined as equ iva lent to the difference between the "m in imum export price" and the declared c . i . f. va lue. January 12. Decree 15/83 came into e f fec t, regu la t- ing the importation of f ish ing products and their by- products and derivatives for human and animal consumption. February 28. By a resolution of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, reference prices were specified for textiles. (Similar resolutions setting reference prices were subsequently introduced dur ing the year as follows: May 2, for refrigerators w i th freezers; May 27, again for textiles; Ju ly 12, for candy and allied products; J u ly 26, for cylinder sleeves and au tomob i le eng ines w i th a capacity higher than 1,600 cubic cen t ime ters; Augu st 5, for printed and manufac tured paper; September 6, again for textiles; September 13, for p lumb ing f ix tu re s; and October 7, for crystal g lass .) March 3. Under Decree 65/83, a new list of goods prohibited for use in free zone areas (zonas francas) was introduced. March 10. Under Decree 77/83, exemption from all surcharges until October 20, 1983 was granted to imports by enterprises involved in ex trac t ing, process- ing, and packaging honey. March 22. Decree 88/83 was introduced, requ ir ing prior Executive Branch authorization for imports of goods for investment in private medical services. April 11. Under Decree 116/83, the exemptions granted in respect of imports of pesticides, fe r t i l ize rs, chemicals, and other inpu ts by end-users in the forestry industry were extended to J u ly 3, 1984. May 10. Decree 152/83 established sanitary and qua l i ty control requirements for imports of pineapples. June 29. Decree 218/83 established a register for manufacturers and representatives for the importation of measuring ins trumen ts. In addition, Decree 233/83 amended import arrangements for the automobile indus- try and expressly authorized imports of any type of vehicle. July 26. Decree 257/83 was introduced, ex tend ing the list of goods classified as capital goods. November 77. A resolution of the M in is try of Econ- omy and Finance set reference prices for manufacturers of unpr in ted paper, pasteboard and cardboard; shoes w i th rubber soles or plastic materials; seamless tubing for condensers, boilers w i th heat exchangers, and tub ing of iron, steel, or other ma ter ia l. Export and Export Payments January 4. Under a decree dated January 4, 1983, combed wool and corned beef were reclassified as traditional exports. January 5. Decree 3/83 was introduced, redef in ing, w i th effect from Janua ry 1, 1983, the system of re imbursement of indirect taxes on exports, in accor- dance w i th GATT ru les. January 5. Under Decree 4/83, taxes were imposed at the rate of 15 percent of f .o .b. va lue for traditional exports and 5 percent of f .o .b. value for combed wool. July 11. It was announced that the temporary impor- tation procedure (for subsequent re-export) could at any time be suspended for periods of up to six mon ths for specified goods or categories of goods (Decree 229/83). July 14. By a resolution of the Ministries of Economy and Finance and of Indu s t ry and Energy, temporary imports of corrugated cardboard boxes at prices below US$800 a ton were suspended for three mon ths. August 17. The m i n im um export prices for raw and refined sugar were extended un t il December 31, 1983 (Decree 281/83). August 23. By a resolution of the Ministries of Economy and Finance and of Industry and Energy, temporary imports of corrugated cardboard in sheets or in rolls at prices below US$640 a ton were suspended. October 7. Veterinary inspection standards were in- troduced for meat exports (Decree 369/83). October 10. The suspension on J u ly 14, 1983 of temporary imports of corrugated cardboard boxes was extended. November 17. The export taxes imposed under De- cree 4/83 for trad i t ional products at rates of 15 percent and 5 percent were reduced to 10 and 0 percent, respectively. 510 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VANUATU (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Vanua tu is the V a t u, pegged to the SDR since September 10, 1981 at a rate of VT 106.20 = SDR 1. l At present the Central Bank of Vanua tu does not buy or sell foreign exchange. As a transitional arrangement, the Banque Indosuez V a n u a t u, wh ich is at present the Government's main depository, quotes daily the rates of the vatu against 11 currencies2 on the basis of their respective SDR values. In its purchases and sales of va tu, the Banque Indosuez Vanua tu applies a margin of up to 1 percent over the international commercial buy ing and selling rates for the respective currencies in terms of the SDR. The overall size of the spread in the local market therefore reflects differences between buying and selling rates for foreign currencies in the international market and the Banque Indosuez V anu a tu 's margin of 1 percent. On December 29, 1983 the buy ing and se l l ing rates for the vatu (for telegraphic transfers) were VT 100.73 per US$1 and VT 102.92 per US$1, respec- tively. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Vanua tu formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 1, 1982. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts of residents and nonresidents. Debits and credits to all accounts may be made freely. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of specified minor quantitative restrictions, all items may be freely imported. Imports of arms, ammun i t ion, narcotic drugs, seeds, noncooked meat, and live animals are restricted and subject to authorization. For the island of Efate, potato imports are seasonally prohibited, usua l ly lasting for six months from September to February; in addition, imports of eggs and frozen whole chicken and chicken pieces (other than wings) are prohibited. Import duties are levied ma in ly on an ad valorem basis (c . i . f .) on most imports. Imports not subject to customs duties include live animals, cereals, flour for nonhuman consumption, pharmaceutical products, perfumes and cosmetics, photographic equ ipmen t, jewe lry, gold bu l l- ion and coins, and audio equipment. A customs service 'On March 12, 1984 the exchange rate of the va tu was changed to VT 100.60 = SDR 1, representing an appreciation of 5.6 percent. 2Aus tra l ian dollar, French f ranc, CFP f ranc, F i ji do l lar, deu tsche mark, Hong Kong dollar, Japanese yen, New Zealand do l la r, pound s ter l ing, Singapore do l lar, and U .S. do l lar. tax of 3 percent is also applied to imports, w i th the exception of nonessential du ty-free goods wh ich bear a service tax of 12 percent. Imports of the central and local governments are exempted from import duties and the customs service tax. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments for invisibles. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from inv is ib les need not be sur- rendered. Exports and Export Proceeds W i th a few exceptions, no restrictions are applied on exports. Exports of trochus, green sna i ls, beches de mer, and crustaceans3 are subject to authorization of the Minister of Agr icu l ture, Fisheries, and Forestry. Copra exports are canalized through the V anu a tu Commodities Marketing Board (VCMB ), and coffee and cocoa are subject to authorization from the VCMB. Artifacts that are five years old or more are subject to authorization from the Cu l tu ral Centre. Most exports are subject to export duties, ma in ly on an ad valorem basis ( f .o .b . ); specific duties are levied on some minor exports, inc lud ing scrap metal and timber. Export duties on copra are on a s l id ing scale basis. There are no surrender requirements for export proceeds. Capital All inward and outward movements of capital are free. Gold There are no restrictions on gold transactions. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement March 10. Following the devaluation of the Australian dollar, the Central Bank of Vanua tu revised the buy ing and selling rates for the Aus tra l ian notes and coins from VT 91 and VT 96 per A$l (in effect since September 20, 1982) to VT 81 and VT 96 per A $ l, respectively. The fixed rate system for Australian notes and coins re- mained in force un t il the end of March 1983 when the replacement of Aus t ra l ian currency w i th the vatu was completed. April 1. Currency notes denominated in New Hebrides franc (NHF ), issued by the Ins t i tu te d'Emission d'Outre Mer, and Aus tra l ian currency notes and coins together ceased to be legal tender in Vanua tu. August 16. In replacement of NHF coins, the Central Bank of Vanua tu issued vatu-denominated coins. ^ I n c l u d i ng coconut crabs for conservation purposes. 511 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Venezuela is the Venezuelan Bolivar. Venezuela maintains a three-tier exchange rate system under which two of the exchange rates are pegged to the U .S. dollar and the third is a f luc tua t ing rate. In the first market, the Central Bank buys foreign exchange at the rate of Bs 4.2925 = US$1 and sells to the nonbank public in eligible cases at the rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1. The Central Bank may also sell foreign exchange at Bs 4.2925 = US$1 to banks, wh ich may in turn sell to their customers at a rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1. Eligible transactions at this preferential rate include (a) foreign exchange earnings by companies active in the extraction and marketing of hydrocarbons and the m in ing of iron ore, (b) foreign exchange inflows effected by the Venezuelan Investment Fund or other public sector entities with the exception of export earnings of autono- mous institutions and state enterprises, (c) payments for imports (including related freight and insurance) defined as essential by the Government and authorized expendi- tures by oil companies and iron ore m in ing f i rms, (d) payments of principal and interest on external public debt and on the authorized external private debt out- standing as of February 18, 1983, (e) expenses by Vene- zuela's diplomatic service and in relation to other inter- national commitments of Venezuela, and (f) expenses of Venezuelan students abroad up to specified monthly limits. Surrender of foreign exchange at the preferential rate must be made directly to the Central Bank. In the second market, the Central Bank sells foreign exchange at the rate of Bs 6.00 = US$1 to banks, and at the rate of Bs 5.9925 = US$1 to intermediate banks, which in turn sell to their customers at Bs 6.00 = US$1. Receipt items required to be surrendered to the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 6.00 = US$1 consist of the export earnings of autonomous agencies and state enterprises, other than those of firms active in petroleum extraction or iron mining, or of the state steel enterprise (SiDOR); eligible payment items comprise imports ( inc lud ing related freight and insurance) of merchandise not classified as essential or subject to special regimes. All other transac- tions can take place through the free market, at a freely fluctuating rate. The f luc tua t ing rate market operates through financial intermediaries; the Central Bank may buy and sell foreign exchange at this market. (Banks and exchange houses may establish different exchange rates according to the instrument being transacted, but the spread between buying and selling rates may not exceed Bs 0.0075 per US$1, except that in the case of oper- ations in traveler's checks or foreign currency bills or coins the spread may be up to Bs 0.05 per US$1 . )1 On ^he Central Bank operated in the free market during 1983 as follows: (1) during March and April it provided foreign exchange to the banking system at the rates of Bs 7.50 = US$1 and Bs 7.70 = US$1, respectively; and (2) from May through December it sold foreign exchange at the rate of Bs 9.90 = US$1 to banks, wh ich in turn sold to their customers at BS 9.95 = US$1. 512 December 31, 1983 the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in the free market were Bs 12.52 = US$1 and BJ, 12.94 = US$1, respectively. Buy ing and selling rates for other officially quoted currencies2 are based, for each market, on the buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in major markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. In the case of interbank transfers, domestic banks may charge only the cost of the transfer, inc lud ing commission and other charges by the foreign banks. Venezuela formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3 and 4, of the Articles of Agree- men t, on Ju ly 1, 1976. Administration of Control Foreign exchange policies are established by the Ministry of Finance, with the advice of the Differential Exchange System Advisory Committee. The committee is chaired by the Minister of Finance and includes the Minister of Development, the Minister of Agriculture and Livestock, the Head of the Central Coordination and P lann ing Office, the President of the Central Bank of Venezuela, and the President of the Venezuelan Invest- ment Fund. The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank and the Differential Exchange System Office (RECADI, an entity w i th in the Ministry of Finance), the head of which serves as secretary to the Differential Exchange System Advisory Committee. Import and export licenses are generally issued by the M in is t ry of Development or the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, depending on the commodity. Import quotas and prohibitions w i th in the multiple exchange rate system are established by the Ministry of Finance. The Superintendency of Foreign Investments (SIEX) exercises supervision over foreign investment in Vene- zuela, over contracts for the importation of foreign technology and the use of foreign patents and trade- marks, and over borrowing abroad. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Dominican Re- pub l ic, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the countries concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. In addition, importation of certain goods is either prohibited or reserved for the Government; these include iron and steel products, luxu ry food, apparel, and specified consumer 2Canad ian do l lars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Portugese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, and Sw iss f ranc s. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution durables. Certain other commodities also require import licenses. For protective purposes, quantitative restric- tions are maintained on some of these items, irrespective of origin, except in the case of Andean Pact and LAI A member countries. Licenses are valid for all countries except South A f r ica. Import licenses for some goods are issued on evidence that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the quan t i ty to be imported. Payments for imports by oil companies and iron ore mining concerns, and for goods listed by the Govern- ment as "essential imports," may be made at the preferential rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1. All other goods which are not prohibited, reserved for the pub l ic sector, or subject to special regimes may be imported at the rate of Bs 6.00 = US$1. The exchange rate applicable to payments for public sector imports is determined on a case-by-case basis. Imports into the free port of Mar- garita Island and those of a small list of products (alcoholic beverages) must be made at the free market rate. To have access to foreign exchange from the Central Bank for payment of imports, an importer must obtain an import license (Conformidad de Importacion) from RECADI before the date of sh ipment of the goods; the license has a va l id i ty of 90 days, and may be renewed for up to 30 additional days only in specified cases. At the time the above license is granted, RECADI also issues an exchange authorization license (Autorizacion para la Obtencion de Divisas). RECADI is authorized to impose advance import deposits in domestic currency of up to 100 percent of the value of the foreign exchange application and to establish max imum prices for goods imported at the preferential exchange rate. Imports for the government sector are controlled by a commission established by Decree No. 2166 (May 26, 1977) that has the power of prior au thor iza t ion over all public sector imports. This authorization is needed in order to obtain letters of credit, exemption from import duties, and, if necessary, f inanc ing. By Decree No. 2664 (April 28, 1978), the Foreign Trade Ins t i tu te was ap- pointed as the technical coordinator of the commission. In accordance w i th the timetable issued by the Andean Pact Commission, contained in the Protocol of Lima, Venezuela adopted the m in imum external tariff in 1978 (Decree No. 2772 of August 3, 1978). It has also agreed, in principle, to harmonize external tariffs and e l im ina te all import duties on trade w i th in the Andean subregion by December 31, 1983, in the prescribed annual stages. Payments for Invisibles Transfers of profits and dividends are l im i ted, in principle, to 20 percent a year of registered foreign capital, in accordance with Decision No. 103 of the Andean Pact. Resident and nonresident travelers must pay on departure a travel tax of Bs 150 a person a trip; children under seven years, foreign tourists, Venezuelan and foreign diplomats, and personnel of international organizations are exempted. VENEZUELA Payments for the following categories of invisibles are allowed to be made through the preferential rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1: (a) authorized expenditures by oil firms and iron ore mining companies, (b) freight and insurance costs associated w i th imports made at this same rate, up to 10 percent of the value of the merchandise, (c) expenses by Venezuela's diplomatic service and in relation to the other international commit- ments of Venezuela, (d) expenses of Venezuelan stu- dents abroad up to specified monthly limits, and (e) interest payments on external public debt and on authorized external private debt outstanding as of Febru- ary 18, 1983. Access to foreign exchange from the Central Bank for the settlement of interest payments on private debts outstanding as of February 18, 1983 is subject to the prior registration of such debt with RECADI. Students w ish ing to qua l i fy for access to the preferential rate should be registered w i th RECADI, which determines the mon th ly individual ceilings. Other payments for invisibles can be made through the free market, without limit. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa are prohibited. Exports of certain fu rs and hides, scrap metal, and a few other commodities are prohibited. Licenses are required for the export of commodities subject to price controls or deemed to be in short supply domestically; for most commodities such licenses are issued by the Ministry of Development, but those for coffee, cacao, rice, and sugar are granted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. The export of precious stones and gold requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export earnings by companies active in the extraction and marketing of hydrocarbons and the mining of iron ore must be surrendered to the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 4.2925 = US$1. Surrender at the rate of Bs 6.00 = US$1 is also required for export proceeds of autonomous agencies or state enterprises other than oil companies or iron ore m in ing concerns, or SIDOR. Foreign exchange proceeds by private exports or SIDOR may be sold in the freely fluctuating market; when sold to the Central Bank, the applicable exchange rate is the rate used by the Central Bank for its operations in the free market. Exporters of coffee and cacao may receive an export subsidy calculated to prevent the f .o .b. bolivar prices of these products in Venezuelan ports from falling below specified m in imum amounts regardless of external prices. In principle, the benefit of these arrangements may be extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. Eligibility for this subsidy is main- tained even if the exchange proceeds are not surren- dered. The promotion of nontraditional exports in Vene- zue la takes two basic forms: first, the Export Financing Fund, established in September 1973, provides direct credit facilities at interest rates below those charged by other lenders, and it also lends in conjunction with commercial banks; second, the Export Incentive Law 513 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (September 1973) assists non trad i t ional exports through fiscal subsidies in the form of tax credit certificates. Under the Export Incen t ive Law, negotiable tax credit certificates w i th a two-year ma tu r i ty are granted to exporters of nontraditional products ( i . e ., basically exports other than pe tro leum, iron ore, coffee, and cacao) that have a domestic va lue added greater than 30 percent. These certificates can be held to ma tu r i ty and used to meet government tax liabilities, or can be traded in the local market at a d iscoun t. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from inv is ib les are freely dispos- able, except for those of the Venezue lan Investment Fund, the national and local governments (wh ich must be surrendered at the rate of Bs 4.2925 = US$1 ), and autonomous agencies and state enterprises (wh ich must be surrendered at Bs 6.00 = US$1). Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, w i th the exception that the Currency Law proh ib i ts the importa- tion for commercial purposes of foreign coin other than gold coin. Capital The national and local governments, autonomous agencies, and state enterprises are required to surrender to the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 4.2925 = US$1 all exchange proceeds from foreign borrowing; principal repayments on external public sector debt are effected at the rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1. All foreign exchange brought into Venezuela by the Venezuelan Investment Fund must be converted at Bs 4.2925 = US$1. The servicing of certain external private sector debt ou ts tand- ing as of February 18, 1983 and registered w i th RECADI can also be effected at the rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1. Eligible debt for th is purpose is defined as the net liability position in foreign exchange as of February 18, 1983 of (1) bank ing, f inanc ia l, and insurance compa- nies, and (2) non f inanc ial enterprises of mixed or Venezuelan ownership in the areas of manu fac tu r ing (if the debt was contracted for the acqu is i t ion of capital goods for use w i th in the coun t ry ), transportation and public services (if the debt was for the acquisition of equipment), and construction (if the debt was incurred for public sector works or works guaranteed by the public sector for social housing projects). In order to have access to the preferential rate, the debt must be registered w i th RECAD I. During 1983, RECADI authorized certain scheduled principal repayments, as well as the cancellation of certain short-term debts. All other inward and outward capital transfers for or by residents are permitted w i thout restriction in the freely f luc tua t ing exchange market. However, brokerage ac t ivi ty in Vene- zuela in shares or un i ts of foreign inves tment trusts or mutual funds is proh ib i ted. Foreign capital imported for investment purposes and all foreign credits must be registered with SIEX. Foreign direct investment is governed by Andean Pact regulations. Na tu ral gas and iron m in ing operations are reserved for the State, and 514 foreign investment in the petroleum sector is prohibited. The Central Bank regulates bank credit to nonresidents and companies whose capital is more than 50 percent owned by physical persons or companies that are resident or domiciled abroad. The General Banking Law authorizes the Government to regulate bank credit to companies whose capital is more than 40 percent owned by nonresident or foreign physical persons or companies. This law also regulates the activities of foreign banks operating in Venezuela. Interest earnings on loans extended by foreign financial ins t i tu t ions are exempt from income tax. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for num isma t ic and investment purposes. The Central Bank does not deal in gold w i th the pub l ic, but gold coin, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated among authorized importers and exchange houses and the pub l ic. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coin among themselves and w i th other residents but do not normally deal in gold w i th the pub l ic. Imports and exports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank, as is the import of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela. Other imports and exports of gold require licenses; imports require licenses from the M in is try of Finance and in certain cases also from the Ministry of Development, wh i le exports are licensed by the M in is try of Finance only. The law prescribes a license for all imports and exports of gold by anyone not registered at the M in is try of Development as an industrial user bu t, in practice, imports and exports by private persons are permitted free of license. Imports of gold coin and of gold bars and ingots we igh ing more than 12 kilograms are free of customs du ty; all other gold imports are subject to du ty at vary ing rates. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement February 20. The Government suspended all foreign exchange operations of the financial ins t i tu t ions, includ- ing the Central Bank, for the next two days. February 22. The Ministry of Finance, in agreement w i th the Central Bank, suspended the free convertibility of the domestic currency and announced the establish- ment of a multiple exchange rate system. Foreign exchange earnings by companies active in the extraction and marketing of hydrocarbons and the m in ing of iron ore were required to be surrendered to the Central Bank at the preferential rate. Transactions for wh ich foreign exchange would be made available at the preferential exchange rate included (i) the servicing of the pub l ic external debt as well as all existing contracted private external debt; ( i i) imports of goods and services declared essential by the Government; (iii) expenses of students abroad; and ( iv) sales of foreign exchange to the Govern- ment for current expenditures, or to state enterprises ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution engaged in petroleum extraction or iron mining. All other transactions would be effected at different ex- change rates, which could include freely f luc tua t ing rates. The closure of the foreign exchange market was initially extended through February 25, 1983 (and subsequently to March 4, 1983). February 27-28. The conditions under wh ich private sector debt service would be eligible for the preferential exchange rate were established. Also, the concepts of "current government expenditures/' "imports of essen- tial goods and services," and "expenses of students abroad" (which had been included among the category of transactions eligible for the preferential exchange rate) were clarified. February 28. By agreement between the M in is try of Finance and the Central Bank, the features of the multiple exchange rate system announced on Febru- ary 22 were defined. The market would consist of two fixed exchange rates (Bs 4.30 and Bs 6.00 = US$1), and a freely fluctuating exchange rate. In the first market the Central Bank would buy foreign exchange at the rate of Bs 4.2925 = US$1 and sell to nonbank users at the rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1. Transactions eligible for settlement in this market were limited to (a) foreign exchange proceeds earned by companies active in the extraction and marketing of hydrocarbons and in the mining of iron ore; (b) foreign exchange obtained by the Central Government or other public entities, w i th the exception of export receipts by agencies other than those active in petroleum extraction and mining; and (c) all foreign exchange brought into Venezuela by the Vene- zuelan Investment Fund. On the selling side, the Central Bank would provide foreign exchange through this market for (a) service payments on public external debt and on authorized external private debt already disbursed as of February 18, 1983; (b) current government expen- ditures abroad, and expenditures arising from the inter- national commitments of Venezuela; (c) imports of essential goods and services, including freight and insurance costs for up to a max imum of 10 percent of the f .o .b. value of such imports; (d) specified types of expenses by students abroad; and (e) authorized imports and services by the oil companies. In the second market, the Central Bank would sell foreign exchange at the rate of Bs 6.00 = US$1 to nonbanks, and at Bs 5.9925 = US$1 to banks, which would in turn sell at the rate of Bs 6.00 = US$1 to nonbanks for imports of goods to be determined from time to time by the Government; on the buying side, foreign exchange earnings from exports of goods and services by autonomous institutions and state enterprises other than those active in petroleum extrac- tion or iron ore mining were required to be surrendered to the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 6.00 = US$1 (sales of export receipts to the Central Bank at this rate were also required as an eligibility condition for official export subsidies). Private exporters not availing themselves of the official export subsidy were allowed to sell their earnings in the free market. Other transactions made eligible for settlement through the free market consisted VENEZUELA of exports of services, receipts from private transfers, private capital in f lows, and imports of goods and services for wh ich foreign exchange could not be made available from the two other exchange markets. In addition, the arrangement allowed for the Central Bank to operate in the free market. May 7. A new agreement between the M in is t ry of Finance and the Central Bank on the mu l t ip le exchange rate system in operation came in to effec t, replacing the one pub l ished on February 28. Under the new agree- men t, wh ich incorporated modifications already an- nounced during the preceding two mon ths, authorization was granted for private export receipts and export earnings of the state steel enterprise (SlDOR) to be converted at the free market rate; other regu la t ions for the operation of the free exchange market were also issued. Administration of Control February 27. A D ifferen t ial Exchange System Advi- sory Committee was set up to oversee the new authority delegated to the Central Bank concerning foreign ex- change trad ing. The committee consisted of the M in is ter of Finance as Cha irman, the M in is ters of Development and of Agriculture and Livestock, the Head of the Central Coordination and P lann ing Off ice, and the Presidents of the Central Bank and the Venezuelan Inves tment Fund. The D ifferen t ial Exchange System Office (RECAD i) was established w i th in the M in is try of Finance, and its head was designated to serve as Secretary to the Differential Exchange System Advisory Committee. February 27. The Ministry of Finance was authorized to impose advance deposits in domestic currency of up to 100 percent on all foreign exchange applications. March 26. Access to foreign exchange from the Central Bank for all authorized purposes was made subject to authorization from RECAD I. May 25. The Central Bank issued new regulations on the arrangement concerning the channe l ing of receipts through the mu l t i la teral clearing system of the LAI A. Imports and Import Payments February 27. The M in is t ry of Finance was authorized to impose advance deposits in domestic currency of up to 100 percent on all foreign exchange applications. February 28. W i th in the new ly established three-tier exchange rate system, imports of goods by the Govern- ment (including related insurance and freight up to a max imum of 10 percent of the f .o .b. va lue of such imports) were allowed to be settled at the preferential rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1, as were paymen ts for authorized imports by oil and iron ore companies. Permission was also granted for paymen ts for imports of goods to be determined from time to time by the Government to be effected at the rate of Bs 6.00 = US$1. Settlement for all other imports was required to be effected at a f luc tua t ing exchange rate. March 2. A list of "essential imports" qu a l i fy ing for the exchange rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1 was pub l ished, 515 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA comprising foods tuffs, agr icu l tural inpu ts, and products used in medical care. March 5. The l ist of "essential imports" was ex- panded to include raw materials for the textile and chemical industries, paper for newsprint, and receivers for television and radio commun ica t ions. March 25. Three customs lists were established as follows: The first list contained some 530 headings of prohibited items, the second l is t, about 620 headings of items importable by the Government, and the third list consisted of 25 customs headings of items subject to import quotas and f inanceab le on ly through the free market. March 26. A system was announced under wh ich imports through the free market could be made subject to authorization by RECADI and to the requirement of a noninterest-bearing advance deposit of up to 100 percent of import va lue. In add i t ion, RECADI was authorized to establish max imum prices on goods imported at the preferential exchange rate. March 30, A special regime was introduced in regard to imports to the free port of Margarita Is land. The regime provided for authorized importers in the free port to import goods subject to import proh ib i t ions in the rest of the country as well as goods otherwise reserved for import by the Government. April 4. It was announced that goods not declared essential or subject to special regimes could be imported at the exchange rate of Bs 6.00 = US$1. April 13. It was decided that fre ight and insurance cost of goods imported at the exchange rate of Bs 6.00 = US$1 should be settled at that rate. April 25. A new list of "essential imports" q u a l i f y i ng for the preferential rate was issued. May 5. The import proh ib i t ions introduced on March 25, 1983, were waived for imports for the Pan American Games and the Simon Bolivar B icen tenn ial Celebration. May 12. An additional list of "essential imports," comprising pharmaceutical i tems, was issued. May 13. The import proh ib i t ions introduced on March 25, 1983, were waived for imports by members of diplomatic and consular m iss ions and the ir fam i l ie s, as well as staff members of international organizations. June 10. A new l ist of "essential imports" was published. July 6. Service paymen ts for insurance costs and repairs made by airlines and sh ipp ing f irms abroad were declared as nonessential imports for the purpose of foreign exchange allocation. July 8. A list of items comprising medical ins tru- ments and materials was added to the l ist of "essential imports" qu a l i fy ing for the preferential rate. October 20. A number of goods were added to the l ist of "essential imports." Payments for Invisibles February 27. The M in is try of Finance was authorized to impose advance deposits in domestic currency of up to 100 percent on all foreign exchange app l ica t ions. 516 February 28. As part of the regulations establishing a three-tier exchange rate system, payments for the follow- ing categories of inv is ib les were made eligible for f inanc ing at the preferential rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1: (1) current government expenditures abroad (defined to inc lude external expenditures of the Venezuelan foreign service and of special missions on behalf of the Execu- t ive, Legislative, or Jud ic iary body); (2) expenses of students abroad, covering tu i t ion, textbooks, room and boarding expenses of students on scholarships from Venezuelan pub l ic sector entities and limited monthly allowances for students not receiving such scholarships; (3) authorized external expenditures of companies oper- ating in the oil and iron ore sectors; and (4) payments of interest on external pub l ic debt and authorized external private debt ou ts tand ing on February 18, 1983. All other inv is ib le transactions were required to be settled at the f luc tua t ing exchange rate. March 26. Access to the preferential rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1 for educational remittances was limited to those for students of Venezue lan na t iona l i ty. March 26. Mon th ly l im i ts were introduced on all student remittances e l ig ib le for the preferential exchange rate, inc lud ing those for s tuden ts on o f f ic ial Venezue lan scholarships. July 5. Regu la t ions on outward remittances for stud- ies abroad by students of Venezuelan na t iona l i ty were mod if ied. Exports and Export Proceeds February 28. As part of the regulations establishing a three-tier exchange rate system, the fo l low ing changes were made in export surrender arrangements: (a) export proceeds in foreign exchange earned by companies active in the extraction and marketing of hydrocarbons and the m in ing of iron ore were required to be surren- dered to the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 4.2925 = US$1; (b) foreign exchange earnings by autonomous ins t i tu t ions or state enterprises other than those active in petroleum extraction and iron ore m in ing were required to be surrendered to the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 6.00 = US$1, as were sales to the Central Bank of foreign exchange earned from private exports in cases where the exporter wished to receive off ic ial export subsidies; and (c) foreign exchange earnings by private sector exporters not ava i l ing themselves of official export subsidies were allowed to be negotiated in the freely f luc tua t ing market. March 26. Foreign exchange obtained by re-export- ing goods imported at the preferential exchange rate (Bs 4.30 = US$1) was required to be surrendered to the Central Bank at the same exchange rate. May 7. All foreign exchange proceeds originating from private sector exports were allowed to be converted at the freely f luc tua t ing exchange rate, whether or not the exporter wished to qua l i fy for export subsidies. Export earnings of the state steel enterprise (SiDOR) were also allowed to be surrendered at this rate. Sales to the Central Bank wou ld be settled at a buy ing rate estab- l ished by the Central Bank for its operations in the freely f luc tua t ing market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Receipts from Invisibles February 28. The following changes in surrender requirements for invisibles were made under the regula- tions establishing a three-tier exchange rate system: (a) foreign exchange receipts from current invisibles by the Central Government, states, mun ic ipa l i t ies, the Venezuelan Investment Fund, and oil and iron ore companies were required to be surrendered to the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 4.2925 = US$1; and (b) earnings from current invisibles by autonomous agencies and states enterprises other than those engaged in petroleum extraction and iron ore m in ing were required to be surrendered to the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 6.00 = US$1. Capital February 28. In connection with the introduction of a three-tier exchange rate system, it was announced that principal repayments on the public external debt and authorized private external debt could be made at the preferential rate of Bs 4.30 = US$1. Eligible private sector external debt was further defined as the net liability position in foreign exchange on February 18, 1983, of (1) banking, financial, and insurance compa- nies, and (2) nonfinancial enterprises of mixed or Venezuelan ownership in the areas of manufacturing (if the debt was contracted for the acquisition of capital goods for use within the country), transportation and public services (if the debt was for the acquisition of equipment), and construction (if the debt was incurred for public sector works or works guaranteed by the public sector for social housing projects). In the case of indebtedness to foreign financial ins t i tu t ions, a certifi- cate of registration with the Superintendency of Foreign Investment dated before February 18, 1983, would be required. Loans eligible for the preferential rate were required to be repaid in at least three years starting from VENEZUELA 1984 and in three or more equal installments. Applicants were required to register their debt with RECADI within 90 days from February 28, 1983, and to agree to permit independent auditors to examine the supporting data at their own expense. March 26. In a modification of the regulations on principal repayments at the preferential exchange rate, restriction of access to companies of mixed or Vene- zuelan ownership and reference to a specific exchange rate were dropped. It was announced that irrespective of any debt rescheduling RECADI would only authorize amortization payments for one third of principal starting from 1984, and subject to the availability of foreign exchange. Authorization would be given during 1983 for payment of interest on all debt and for scheduled principal repayments, including the cancellation of cer- tain short-term debts. In addition, • domestic banks requesting access to the preferential rate for debt service payments were required to obtain a rescheduling of certain foreign currency debts of domestic nonbank customers. The registration of foreign debts w i th RECADI was required to be done w i th in 60 days from March 26, 1983. April 18. The terms "capital goods," "raw materials," and "services" were defined for the purpose of access to the preferential exchange rate in connection w i th the servicing of private foreign debt. April 26. The documentation required for registering external debt w i th RECADI was specified. May 26. The period allowed for registration of private foreign debt w i th RECADI was extended by 30 days beyond the original deadline of 60 days from March 26, 1983. July 14. Interest earnings on loans extended by foreign f inanc ial institutions were exempted from Vene- zuelan income tax. 517 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET NAM (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement On May 3, 1978 the North Vietnamese dong and the South Vietnamese dong were w i thd rawn from circula- tion and a new currency, the Vietnamese Dong, was introduced, w i th an official exchange rate of D 2.66358 = SDR 1, equ iva lent to D 2 . 17 = US$1. In practice, the exchange rate between the dong and the U.S. dollar has been maintained w i th in relatively narrow margins, wh i le the rate for the SDR has been left to f luc tua te. Viet Nam began to participate in the transfer- able values system on January 1, 1981; the exchange rate for the transferable ruble has been fixed at D 16.235 = TR 1 since October 1, 1981. Exchange rates of the dong for certain foreign currencies are quoted by the State Bank of Viet Nam on the basis of the cross rates of these currencies against the U .S. dollar. Since October 1981, a premium rate of D 12 = US$1 has been applied to export proceeds of local corporations. A premium of 30 percent is applied to inward transfers for amoun ts up to D 5,000 and 40 percent for amoun ts above D 5,000; receipts from tourists in convertible currencies are eligible for a fixed premium of 20 percent; and a preferential rate of D 20 = US$1 is applied to inward remittances from Vietnamese workers in the nonconvert- ible area. Another prem ium, amoun t ing to 50 percent, is applied to inward remittances of convertible currencies by nonresident Vietnamese in convertible currency countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the State Bank. Foreign trade is administered by the M in is try of Foreign Trade, wh ich authorizes the foreign trade transac t ions carried out by specialized state import-export corpora- tions or, in certain cases, cooperatives or state enter- prises. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade; approval is given for imports in excess of the Plan on the merit of each app l ica t ion. Most foreign exchange transactions are effected by the Bank for Foreign Trade. Most of the foreign exchange transactions related to foreign technical assistance are monitored by the Aid Reception Commission wh ich is an agency directly attached to the Cabinet of the Prime Minister. Prescription of Currency Trade transactions w i th member countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA), Albania, the Lao People's Democratic Repub l ic, and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea are settled either under the CMEA transferable ruble settlement system (Czechoslovakia, Cuba, Hunga ry, Mongolia, and U .S .S .R .) or through ind iv idual bilateral clearing ac- counts. Nontrade transactions w i th countries w i th wh ich 518 Viet Nam has bilateral paymen ts agreements! take place at exchange rates specified in these agreements. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to ma in ta in nonresident accounts either in foreign currencies or in dong. Nonresi- dents can freely reconvert into foreign currency and transfer abroad unused balances in Vietnamese currency that have been acquired against foreign currency. Imports and Exports An import plan and an export plan are drawn up annu a l ly. In p r inc ip le, import and export transactions are carried out by about 20 central import-export corpora- tions and 12 local corporations. Local corporations must obtain specific approval from the Ministry of Foreign Trade to import and export. Some of these corporations have their own producing un i t s, wh i le others contract w i th supp ly ing enterprises. All payments for external trade transactions need the authorization of the State Bank and are made through the Bank for Foreign Trade. Export receipts are normally channeled through the Bank for Foreign Trade, and any other receipts from foreign trade have to be surrendered to the State Bank. Adm in i s t ra t ive procedures were changed in August 1982 when exportation of 25 items became the mono- poly of the central export-import corporations, and all foreign exchange proceeds were required to accrue directly to the Central Government. Local corporations may procure and export these 25 exportable commodities only after the centrally set targets have been achieved. Other commodities can be exported by local corporations subject to approval from the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade. The local corporations may import on ly commodities on a list specified by the M in is t ry of Trade. As a general ru le, items importable by these corporations are limited to those needed in the ir regions, and they may export on ly those commodities or ig ina t ing from their region. An export bonus system has been in operation since 1980 to provide add i t ional incentives for export produc- t ion. By f u l f i l l i ng Plan targets, exporters earn a bonus of 2 percent to 10 percent of the value of planned exports, depending on the qua l i ty and k ind of product; another bonus of 3-5 percent is earned on exports in excess of targets. State enterprises whose export earnings exceed Plan targets can freely import required inputs and certain consumer goods up to the value of such excess. ' At the end of 1983 V iet Nam had b i la te ral paymen ts agreements w i th e ight coun t r ies that were not members of the IMF —A lban ia, Bu lg a r i a, Czechos lovak ia, German Democratic Repub l ic, Mongo l ia, Democratic People's R epub l ic of Korea, Poland, and U . S . S . R ., and w i th n ine IMF membe rs —Bang ladesh, People's Repub l ic of Ch ina, H u n g a r y, Democratic Kampuchea, Lao People's Democratic Re- p u b l i c, L ib y an Arab J am a h i r i y a, M a l i, Rom an i a, and Syr ian Arab R e p u b l i c. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Under an export earnings retention scheme, the regional governments are entitled to obtain from the State Bank at the official exchange rate 30 percent of the foreign exchange earnings from exports of their region and 90 percent of foreign exchange earnings from that part of the exports that exceeds the ir export quotas. As an export incentive, the regional governments guarantee to the export companies a premium rate of D 12 = US$ 1 for the conversion of their export proceeds. Add i t ional incentives are provided for certain exporters in the form of a right to use for imports a portion of the net earnings (defined as export receipts less the cost of imported goods and interest cost of borrowed foreign exchange) ranging from 30 percent to 90 percent depending on the quality and type of product. Deposits in foreign currency are held at the Bank for Foreign Trade in the names of exporters, that is, the state-trading companies, or the regional trading companies, or the specialized state- private agencies. These deposits can be used to finance domestic purchases, in wh ich case they are transferred to the name of the seller, and to f inance certain non luxu ry imports. State enterprises have three export plans (primary, secondary, and tertiary). Primary export plans are formulated by the Government against deliveries of key inpu ts by the Government; secondary plans are set by the Government but w i thout suff ic ient supply of inpu ts (e.g., fue l) by the Government, thus leaving the task of procuring the needed inpu ts to the enterprises; tertiary plans are set freely by the producing un i t s, wh ich u t i l ize discarded materials. State enterprises whose export earnings exceed Plan targets can freely import required inputs and certain consumer goods up to the va lue of such excess. For imports from the nonconvertible area, annual credits in foreign exchange are allocated to importers on the basis of actual production capacity; in pr inc ip le, such credits cannot be carried over from one year to another. For imports from the convertible area, although a similar foreign exchange allocation system exists in pr inc ip le, it is not in use, as decisions to allocate foreign exchange are taken by the Prime M in is ter's Cabinet on a case-by- case basis, upon recommendations from the State Plan- ning Commission, the M in is try of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and specified Vice-Premiers. For transactions under the local production plans, local authorities are authorized to decide on foreign exchange allocation, provided that the resources are derived from their export earnings. VIET NAM Payments for Invisibles All transactions in inv is ib les require ind iv idual authorization by the State Bank. Foreign exchange is made available upon authorization of the transaction. All travel abroad needs ind iv idual authorization, from the Prime M in is ter's Cab ine t, and at present is limited to official business for wh ich all foreign exchange expenses are covered. Students abroad in nonsocialist countries who had left the country before April 1975 may receive foreign exchange allocations as determined by the State Bank for each ind iv idual case. Receipts from transac- tions in inv is ib les have to be surrendered to the State Bank w i th in seven days. The export and import of Vietnamese currency and of securities denominated in Vietnamese currency needs the special permission of the State Bank. The circulation of foreign currency in the domestic market is prohibited. Legal holders of foreign exchange are authorized to buy foreign and local consumer goods in special government shops. Capital The Foreign Investment Law provides for three forms of foreign inves tmen t: (1) investment in the production of goods intended solely for export; (2) jo int ventures between a foreign investor and a Vietnamese state economic organization; and (3) production-sharing part- nerships for the exp lo i ta t ion of na tural resources. The share of foreign capital that is permitted ranges from 30 percent to 49 percent for jo int ventures and up to 100 percent for enterprises specializing in production for export. There are guarantees of repatriation of profits and of proper compensation in the event of na t iona l iza t ion. Gold The State Bank alone has authority to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Physical persons are permitted to own jewelry and artistic and cu l tu ral objects of gold for domestic and personal use. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement September 1. A prem ium of 50 percent was in- troduced for inward remittances of convertible curren- cies to relatives by nonresident Vietnamese in convert- ible currency countries. 519 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Western Samoa is the Western Samoa Tala. Since Ju ly 6, 1979 the value of the tala in terms of the New Zealand dollar is determined by reference to a basket of currencies and to other factors that are considered important in determining that external value. Exchange rates for other currencies are established on the basis of their daily rates against the New Zealand dollar. There is an exchange levy of 1 percent on gross sales of foreign exchange, giving rise to spreads in excess of 2 percent in exchange transactions. Administration of Control Overall responsibility for the administration of ex- change control rests w i th the Monetary Board, but the daily administration of exchange controls and the ex- change allocation system is entrusted to the Monetary Division of the Treasury Department, subject to the control and the instructions of the Minister of Finance and the broad guidelines laid down by the Monetary Board. The Minister of Finance may delegate his authority to the Financial Secretary, who in turn may delegate part of his powers to the Secretary of the Monetary Division of the Treasury and to authorized banks. All payments to nonresidents of Western Samoa require the approval of the Monetary Board. The Minister has delegated to the Bank of Western Samoa and the Pacific Commercial Bank —the only authorized banks —powers to approve certain payments up to any amount, and certain other payments up to specified amounts. Prescription of Currency There are no prescriptions as to the currencies in which payments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Imports and Import Payments The import of a few commodities is prohibited for reasons of security or health. Other commodities may be imported from any source. Each authorized commercial importer receives a quarterly allocation of foreign ex- change, wh ich may be used freely for the import of any commodity that is not proh ib i ted .! W i th the exception of motor vehicles and certain items specified by the Monetary Board (for wh ich there are locally produced subs t i tu tes), special approval is required for imports of these commodities. (After October 1, 1983 the practice was discontinued under which a number of basic commodities (ma in ly foodstuffs) were subject to an import tendering system and the successful tenderer was permitted to import such goods.) The allocations are made by the Monetary Board and are communicated to the authorized banks which automatically provide the foreign exchange required for import payments upon submission of documentary evidence. Importers may carry over unu t i l ized portions of allocations from quarter to quarter but not from year to year; advance allocations are not generally permitted. Imports purchased under open account arrangements are financed from current allocations even if payments are not due until a later period. Persons who are not licensed importers may import any commodity freely up to WS$100 a person a year but require the prior approval of the Monetary Board for imports of higher va lue. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain inv is ib les may be approved by the authorized banks up to specified limits. Payments in excess of these limits, as well as payments for all other inv is ib les, require the prior approval of the Monetary Board. Remittances for study abroad are freely autho- rized. Approval of the Monetary Board is required in respect of all transfers of local earnings from dividends, interest, and pensions of overseas residents. Residents traveling overseas for business or private purposes are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equivalent to WS$50 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$2,000 a person a year. The Monetary Board grants supplemen- tary allocations against evidence of genuine need. As part of their foreign currency allowance, resident travel- ers may take out only suff ic ient foreign bank notes for immediate needs. Travelers may not take out any domestic currency. A 15 percent withholding tax is levied on remittances of dividends at the source and interest payments on overseas loans. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require export licenses issued by the Customs Department on behalf of the Monetary Board. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture and the Produce Marketing Division on grounds of low qua l i ty, or by order of the Head of State to alleviate domestic shortages. Exports of copra are controlled by the Copra Board, exports of cocoa by the Cocoa Board, and exports of other agricultural products by the Produce Marketing Division. An export levy of 7 percent is imposed on the f .o .b. value of cocoa and copra exports.2 Export proceeds must be surrendered to the authorized banks within a reasonable time after shipment. 'Petroleum products and brown sugar may be imported free ly outside the allocation sys tem. 2The export levy on cocoa is activated at a price of WS$800 a ton and that on copra at WSS100 a ton. 520 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign currencies earned by residents in perform- ing services for nonresidents must be surrendered to the authorized banks. Resident travelers must on re turn sell to the banks all unused foreign currency brought in. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign bank notes, but no domestic bank notes. Capital All outward capital transfers by residents requ ire the specific approval of the Monetary Board. Inwa rd cap i tal remittances do not norma l ly require approva l, but bor- rowing abroad by nonbank residents does requ ire ap- proval. The authorized banks approve transfers of g i f ts to relatives and dependents, e i ther for special f am i ly occasions or by way of ma in tenance, up to WS$200 a year a person. Foreign inves tmen ts in specified ac t iv i t ies in Western Samoa are encouraged. The Enterprises Incentive Act provides for the g ran t ing of cer ta in relief of customs du t ies, income tax, and business license fees to persons engaged in approved enterprises. Both the repatriation of capital and profit rem i t tances on foreign capital are subject to approval by the Monetary Board; such approval is no rma l ly granted. WESTERN SAMOA Gold Res iden ts may freely purchase, ho ld, and sell gold in any fo rm. There are no res t r ic t ions on imports or exports of gold. Changes During 1983 Imports and Import Payments March 22. Reduc t ions of between 1 percent and 8 percent were made in the import du ty rates on mu t ton f laps, ch icken backs, m i lk and cream, bu t te r, rice, f lou r, ma rga r ine, canned mea t, prepared and preserved f i sh, sugar, and sa l t. O ther changes were also made in the impo rt t a r i ff as fo l lows: (a) the va lua t ion of impor ts was changed from a cu r rent domestic v a lue (c .d .v .) basis to a c . i . f. basis; (b) the prime d u ty was raised from 4 percent of c .d .v. to 8 percent of c . i . f .; and (c) the exemp t ion of diesel o il from impo rt du t i es was d iscon t inued. July /. The Gove rnment announced that the import tender ing system wou ld be d iscon t inued on October 1, 1983. November 15. In the budget speech for fiscal year 1984, the Gove rnment announced its in ten t ion to gradu- a l ly d i sm a n t le the fore ign exchange a l loca t ion system. 521 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Yemen Arab Republic is the Yemen Rial, which is pegged to the U .S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YRls 4.6765 = US$1. (The official exchange rate of YRls 4.5 = US$1 is used on ly for accounting purposes, while an exchange rate of YRls 5.50 = US$1 is used for customs valuation purposes.) On December 31, 1983 the official buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were YRls 4.664 and YRls 4.689, respectively, per US$1. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies1 are fixed da i ly by the Central Bank of Yemen on the basis of rates for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The Ministry of Economy and Industry grants licenses for imports, with the exception of licenses for imports of food and cement, wh ich are granted by the M in is try of Commerce and Supply. A committee composed of representatives from these two Ministries and of the Central Bank scrutinizes all applications for import licenses. Transactions in invisibles are supervised by the Central Bank for statistical purposes only. All commer- cial banks and exchange dealers operate in foreign exchange. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requ iremen ts. Settlements may be made in any currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Importation of certain items of used machinery for purposes of resale is also prohibited. All other imports require licenses. In addition to a license, the importation of certain com- modities requires the permission of certain government agencies. Freight insurance on imports must be pur- chased locally. Imports that are financed by the importer with his own foreign exchange held abroad also require an import license. Importers who hold an import license may obtain the necessary foreign exchange from local banks. A margin deposit of 20 percent is prescribed against letters of credit opened for all imports. In addition to the applicable customs du ty, imports are subject to a defense tax of 5 percent, a statistical tax of 2 percent, and a tax of 1 percent for reconstruction related to earthquakes. Imports shipped by land routes w i thout licenses are subject to a surcharge of 7 percent of the c . i . f. value and to an advance payment of a profit tax of 3 percent of c . i . f. va lue. 'Deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Jordan dinars, Kuwa i ti d inars, Lebanese pounds, Ne the r lands gu i lders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian r iya ls, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 522 Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles may be made freely. Export of Yemen rial bank notes in excess of YR ls 100,000 or the equivalent of US$30,000 in foreign currency notes w i thout the prior approval of the Central Bank is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical pur- poses on ly, all exports must be registered on forms that are issued freely by banks; export licenses are required. Exporters are not required to surrender their foreign exchange proceeds, which may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. All exports are subject to a defense tax of 5 percent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered and may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in domestic or foreign bank notes. Capital No other restrictions are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers, but they are subject to the provisions of the Investment Law administered by the M in is t ry of Economy and Indus try. Foreign investors in the Yemen Arab Republic are free to transfer abroad any desired proportion of their net profits after taxes, or of their capital. Certain tax and customs duty exemptions and concessions are granted for a period of five years to approved projects. Export of Yemen rial bank notes in excess of YRls 100,000 or the equivalent of US$30,000 in foreign currency notes w i thout the prior approval of the Central Bank is prohibited. Gold Residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the Yemen Arab Republic and to import or export gold in any form w i thout an import, export, or exchange license. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement August 10. The operations of money changers dealing in foreign currency were brought under the exchange control regulations of the Central Bank. August 11. A regulation was adopted specifying that commercial banks should surrender to the Central Bank 15 percent of their foreign exchange purchases other than those relating to commitments made before the introduc- tion of th is requirement or those acquired through conversion into another foreign currency. (Implementa- tion of th is regulation remained deferred by the end of 1983.) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC November 10. The Central Bank middle rate for the Yemen rial was changed from YRls 4.5625 = US$1 to YRls 4.6765 = US$1, representing a devaluation of 2.4 percent. Prescription of Currency April 14. The inoperative bilateral payments agree- ment with Egypt was terminated. Imports and Import Payments March 24. Large increases in import duties were introduced for a wide range of goods, inc lud ing luxu ry items, live animals, animal products, and vegetables. June 20. A 1 percent tax for reconstruction related to earthquakes was levied on all imports. Capital August 18. Export of Yemen rial bank notes in excess of YRls 100,000 or up to the equivalent of US$30,000 in foreign currency notes without the prior approval of the Central Bank was prohibited. 523 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Democratic Repub l ic of Yemen is the Yemeni Dinar, wh ich is pegged to the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, at YD 1 = US$2.89524. Buy ing and selling rates for the pound sterling are also officially quoted by the Na t ional Bank of Yemen (the sole commercial bank and authorized dealer), with daily quotations based on the buy ing and selling rates for the U .S. dollar in markets abroad. On December 31, 1983 the National Bank of Yemen's buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar were YD 0.343 and YD 0.350, respectively, per US$1. Rates for all other prescribed currencies are quoted weekly; additional adjustments are made when there are major changes in the market rates for these currencies in London and New York the previous day. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is carried out by the General Department for Exchange Control of the Bank of Yemen (the central bank) through the Foreign Exchange Committee, wh ich has delegated certain pow- ers to the Director of Exchange Control, a member of that Committee. The M in is try of Trade and Supp ly issues import and export licenses; those for gold and other precious metals require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the Na t ional Bank of Yemen. Other dealers in foreign exchange, who may deal only in traveler's checks and bank notes, are classified into ordinary money changers and secondary dealers. Ordi- nary money changers, whose pr inc ipal business is to sell and purchase foreign exchange for the ir own account or for the account of the National B ank, are permitted to deal in specified currencies. Secondary dealers, such as hotels, travel bureaus, and retail stores selling tourist goods, are permitted to accept payment in foreign exchange only from their customers and are required to surrender the receipts in foreign exchange to the National Bank not later than the fo l low ing business day. Wh i le the authorized bank and money changers are allowed to charge a commission for the purchase and sale of foreign exchange as specified by the Committee, secondary dealers may not do so. Except for payments for imports against letters of credit or documents, which may be approved by the authorized dealer, all payments for imports (including those of precious metals) require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Certain pub l ic cor- porations are engaged in foreign trade (see section on Imports and Import Payments, below). 524 Prescription of Currency Exchange transactions must be carried out through the authorized dealer in accordance w i th prescription of currency regulations. All paymen ts to Israel are pro- h ib i ted. Export proceeds and certain receipts from invisibles must be received in convertible currencies and surrendered to the authorized dealer, proceeds from exports or re-exports to specified ne ighbor ing countries may be surrendered in the currencies of such countries. Payments for imports must be made in prescribed currencies. Nonresident Accounts External Accounts in Yemeni dinars may be credited w i th proceeds from convertible foreign currency trans- ferred from abroad, w i th bank interest payable on such accounts, and w i th balances from other External Ac- counts. Transfers from abroad must be in the form of bank drafts; the accounts may not be credited w i th payments in the form of foreign bank notes (unless they have been declared to the customs on entry), or w i th locally raised or locally earned funds (except in certain specified cases). External Accounts may be debited for any payments to residents, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Transfers abroad from External Accounts in Yemeni dinars require the prior approval of the Ex- change Control Department. The Foreign Exchange Committee may direct any payment to a nonresident to a Blocked Account. Except w i th the Committee's prior approval, Blocked Accounts may be debited on ly for purchases of specified securities. Yemeni na t iona ls working abroad may establish non- resident accounts in foreign currencies; balances in these accounts earn interest and are convertible into foreign currency on demand. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. All imports require ind iv idual licenses. Goods originating in the Yemen Arab Repub l ic are exempt from the licensing require- ments. There is an annual import program. Importers may import certain goods w i th the ir own exchange; such imports require prior approval by the M in is try of Trade and Supp ly. Payments for imports on a c. & f. basis against letters of credit or documentary drafts can be made by authorized dealers w i thout the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control; most other forms of payment for imports require approval. Insurance on imports must be effected locally. The Na t ional Company for Foreign Trade has a monopoly over imports of all consumer goods, with the exception of medical supplies and hospital equ ipmen t, wh ich are hand led by the Na t ional Company for Drugs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN It is also the sole importer of automobiles and other vehicles, of all government requirements, and of most requirements of the public hospitals, as well as other specified items. Imports into and exports from the free port zones within the port of Aden are free of exchange and trade controls (except in respect of transactions between these zones and the rest of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen) and are exempt from customs duties, except that the proceeds of exports and re-exports financed originally by the authorized bank are subject to the surrender requirement (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). In all cases, exporters from the free zones are required to undertake to repatriate in convertible currencies commissions, profits, and other expenses relating to the processing of goods in the zones and to surrender the currencies to the autho- rized bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. The "Inducement to Invest Law" divides foreign investments into two categories: (1) projects which realize se lf-suff ic iency in their requirements for foreign currency; these may remit net annual profits due on invested capital w i t h in the l im it of the credit of their exports; and (2) projects of primary importance for the national economy; these may remit the whole of the annual net profits due on capital invested. Projects wh ich were set up prior to 1971 may remit all of their net profit. The basic exchange allow- ance for tourism is the equivalent of YD 125 a person a trip to all destinations (50 percent of th is amount for children aged between two and ten years). Allowances for medical treatment abroad are no rma l ly granted in accordance with the amount estimated by the M in is try of Health. Allowances for other types of travel are granted on the merits of the application. Foreign employees of approved enterprises are allowed to remit abroad be- tween 50 percent and 100 percent of their total earnings (net of taxes) according to the terms of the contract; other foreign employees, if receiving their salaries from abroad, are allowed to remit 70 percent of their total earnings. Nonnationals doing business in the coun try can remit abroad up to YD 50 a month for f am i ly ma in te- nance. All insurance is nationalized; existing policies have been transferred to the National Insurance and Reinsurance Company, and payments abroad in respect of premiums are not permitted. Travelers may take out the equivalent of YD 5 in domestic bank notes and up to the equivalent of YD 125 in traveler's checks, foreign bank notes, or other foreign means of paymen t. Nonresi- dents may take out any foreign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are subject to ind iv idual licensing. All exports to Israel are prohibited. Except for exports to neighboring countries specified by the Foreign Exchange Committee, export proceeds must be received in con- vertible currencies w i t h in six mon ths of shipment and must be sold to authorized dealers upon receipt. Pro- ceeds of exports or re-exports to neighboring countries may be surrendered in the na t ional currency of the importing coun try. Proceeds from Invisibles All c la ims of residents for services rendered to nonresidents must be collected in foreign currency (or received from an External Account) and surrendered to the authorized dealer. Travelers may freely bring in foreign bank notes; imports of more than YD 5 in domestic currency are subject to a tax of 50 percent. Tourists are required to spend in foreign exchange an amount equ iva lent to YD 50 a mon th or US$10 a day if the dura t ion of the ir stay is less than one month. Capital V i r t u a l ly all capital paymen ts and transactions require prior approval. Expatriates are norma l ly permitted upon departure to remit the ir entire savings to their country of permanent residence. Foreign inves tmen ts that have been approved under The Inducement to Invest Law (enacted in 1981) may be granted exemptions from import du ty and var ious other tax fac i l i t ies. Five years after inves tmen t, the net va lue of the enterprise (cal- culated on the basis of ass ignmen t, actual l iqu ida t ion, or book va lue, wh ichever is less) is transferable at the rate of 25 percent a year; if, however, the owner of the Yemen i, Arab, or fore ign capital encounters operational d i f f i cu l t i e s, his capital may, upon approval, be retrans- ferred to its place of or ig in one year after entry. This provision also applies to the reinvested part of such capital. Interest due on any loans obtained abroad after the f i rm concerned has been established may also be remitted, provided that all du t ies, taxes, and other government dues have been pa id. Projects authorized under th is law are exempt from income tax for up to five years from the commencement of production and may carry losses forward. Gold On ly the monetary au thor i t ies and authorized dealers may purchase, hold, or sell gold bu l l ion. Licensed go ldsm i ths may purchase, ho ld, and sell other unworked gold and gold coin and ornaments. Other residents may hold gold in the form of ornaments or num i sma t ic coins. Exports and imports of gold by registered goldsmiths require licenses issued by the M in is try of Trade and Supp ly (General Department for Foreign Trade); in certain cases, the consent of the Foreign Exchange Committee must also be obtained. Departing female residents may take out gold ornaments not exceeding 20 to las1, subject to registration in their passports. Arriving fema le na t iona ls may bring in gold ornaments up to 25 tolas du ty free and up to an additional 75 tolas af ter paying import du ty at a rate of 30 percent. Arriving 'One tola is equal to 180 g ra ins troy or 0.4114 ounce. 525 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN male nationals may bring in gold ornaments up to 90 tolas of which 10 tolas are du ty free. Changes During 1983 Payment for Invisibles February 1. The basic foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel ( i .e ., YD 125 a person a t r ip, and ha lf of th is amount for children of between two and ten years) was made to apply un i fo rm ly for travel to all destinations. Gold February I. The m ax imum quan t i ty of gold orna- ments that departing fema le residents could take out of the country was doubled to 20 tolas. 526 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA (Position on December 31, 1983)1 Exchange Arrangement The currency of Yugoslavia is the Yugoslav Dinar. The authorities do not maintain the exchange rate of the dinar w i th in announced margins, and therefore, all transactions, with the exception of those effected under the procedures set forth for certain countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements (see sec- tion on Prescription of Currency, below), take place at a f luc tua t ing exchange rate. However, the authorities intervene in the foreign exchange market, when neces- sary, to ensure orderly conditions and to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates. The buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the foreign exchange market in Belgrade on December 31, 1983 were Din 127.2445 and Din 127.6268, respectively, per US$1; on the same date, the exchange rate in terms of the U.S. dollar for transactions on bilateral accounts was Din 104.5211 per US$1. Rates are also quoted for certain other currencies.2 Administration of Control The Federal Assembly formulates the decision on foreign exchange policy of the country for each year; the projections of the balance of payments and the foreign exchange balance of Yugoslavia are component parts of this decision. The Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provisions in respect of foreign trade and exchange operations. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade makes decisions governing certain foreign trade transactions and issues import and export licenses and instructions when required. It is also charged w i th securing balanced trade with payments agreement coun- tries. The Federal Secretariat for Finance, the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and the National Banks of the republics and autonomous provinces administer the exchange controls. The National Bank of Yugoslavia prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries. The Yugoslav Commun i ty of Interest for Foreign Economic Relations, in cooperation w i th the Yugoslav Chamber of the Economy, prescribes un i fo rm criteria on the basis of which groups of enterprises according to economic activity conclude internal self- management agreements on the volume of imports, the allocation of foreign exchange, as well as borrowing and lending abroad. Foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through an authorized bank, of wh ich there are two 'A new law amend ing and supp lemen t ing the law on foreign exchange operations and credit relations w i th foreign countries entered into effect on Janua ry 1, 1984. The law introduces major changes regarding surrender requirements for export proceeds. 2Aus tra l ian dollars, Aus tr ian sch i l l ings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, F inn ish markkaa, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, K uw a i ti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. types: (1) Fully authorized banks, which are permitted to engage in transactions with foreign countries and may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugo- slavia and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations ( inc lud ing the granting of guarantees). (2) Banks which are authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep foreign ex- change accounts abroad nor engage in foreign credit operations, except through banks authorized to engage in foreign exchange transactions abroad. Authorized ex- change offices may only purchase foreign bank notes and traveler's checks; this status is open to all commercial and savings banks. In addition, hotels and tourist agencies, if specifically authorized, may also purchase foreign bank notes and traveler's checks. Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic organizations (both producing and trading under tak ings) registered for this purpose. Economic organizations that are not registered to conduct foreign trade channel their imports and exports through eco- nomic organizations that are authorized to engage in foreign trade transactions. Resident physical persons may not engage in foreign trade. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries w i th which Yugo- slavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies, and according to the procedures, set forth in those agreements. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requ ir ing denom ina t ion of transactions in clearing U.S. dollars w i th A lban ia, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Mongolia, and the U .S .S .R. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may maintain accounts denominated in foreign exchange and in dinars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules: for- eigners resident outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies or in dinars with fu l ly authorized banks in Yugoslavia; foreign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may freely open accounts expressed in foreign currencies or dinars, with any authorized bank. Foreign exchange accounts in convertible currencies of nonresident jur id ical and physical persons are kept in the currency deposited.3 Balances held in these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia, in dinars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any convert- ible currency. Transfers from these accounts are free if 3 Accounts may be denominated in any of the fo l low ing currencies: Aus t r ian sch i l l ings, Be lg ian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, F inn i sh markkaa, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. 527 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA made in the currency in wh ich the account is kept; outward transfers in other convertible currencies are subject to the bank ho ld ing the account being prepared to make the necessary conversion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be opened on ly for certain foreign jur id ical and physical persons resident in Yugoslavia. Balances may be used only for d inar payments in Yugoslavia or for retransfer to the bilateral country to which the account is related. Foreign jur id ical and physical persons may in certain cases and under specified conditions open nonresident accounts in dinars w i th authorized banks. Such accounts can be credited freely w i th amoun ts whose transfer in convertible currency has been authorized. The possibil- ity of use of dinars from such accounts in Yugoslavia and the degree of transferab i l i ty of the f u n ds depend on the origin of the d inar deposits. Nonresident ju r id ical and physical persons may also open other d inar accounts w i th authorized banks. These other accounts may be credited w i th d inars acquired in Yugoslavia in accordance w i th the existing regulations. Balances are, in pr inc ip le, nontransferable and may be spent in Yugoslavia only for noncommercial paymen ts by the account holder or by members of his immediate fam i ly, or by the owner and staff of foreign f irms if the account holder is a foreign ju r id ical person. If balances on these accounts derive from copyright royalties, from work performed in Yugos lav ia by foreigners, from pensions, disability allowances, compensations to per- sons decorated w i th the Order of the Na t ional Hero, or from alimony payments, transfers may be effected under specified conditions. Resident nationals may ma in ta in foreign exchange accounts or foreign exchange savings deposits in con- vertible currencies w i th any authorized bank. These accounts are kept in the foreign currency deposited and bear interest, wh ich is paid in the same foreign currency. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained inde f in i te ly and although cash w i thdrawa ls from most banks are limited to US$250 a month for each trip on the basis of self-management agreements, other payments in Yugo- slavia and abroad on behalf of the account holder or members of his immediate f am i ly can be made freely; balances are not transferable to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Yugoslav nationals residing abroad and former emi- grants re turn ing to Yugoslavia may also open foreign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia, subject to the same limitations. Imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected only by eco- nomic organizations registered as pa r t ic ipa t ing in foreign trade. Most major indus tr ial producers are so registered, in addition to economic organizations that specialize in foreign trade. For import of certain basic foods tu f fs, such as hard wheat, rice, bu t te r, and special k inds of edible oil, quotas are fixed by the Federal Executive 528 Council; importation of such goods is carried out either by particular economic organizations or through the Federal Office for Food Reserves, on the basis of public bids. For most commodities, import licenses are not re- quired. All commodities included in the foreign trade nomenclature are classified in three categories: LB— liberalized goods; RK and DK-goods subject to quantity or value quotas; D —imports sub ject to ad hoc licensing. Goods in the LB category are ma in ly raw materials, foods tuffs, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods. Protective equipment for workers and all other goods not specifically included in the RK, DK, or D lists are also liberalized and free from any quantitative restriction. Foreign exchange for payments for imports from the convertible currency area is made available on the basis of self-management agreements concluded w i th in the groups of economic activity in any convertible currency appropriate to the exporting country. Payments for imports from payments agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of funds in the appropriate clearing account. Imports under commodity quotas (RK list or DK list) are raw materials, manu fac tu r ing components, equip- men t, and consumer goods; l im i ts are established for certain other goods. The quotas are established either in quan t i t ies (RK) or in dinars (DK). The allocation among importers of goods subject to quota is decided by agreement among the economic organizations w i th in the Chamber of Economy of Yugoslavia.4 Additional quotas may be allocated du r ing the year if the enterprise to wh ich the quota is allocated undertakes to increase exports. Goods in list D comprise gunpowder, firearms and ammun i t ion, petroleum, certain types of lubricants, drugs, and na tu ral gas. Import licenses are required only for list D commodities. For certain goods there is an additional requirement of a special import license ("accordance") issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. At the end of 1983 goods subject to this requirement comprised 71 LB items, 13 RK items, and 2 DK items. The items include a wide range of tropical foodstuffs and f ru i t s, raw materials, cocoa bu t te r, fats and oils, raw cotton, textiles, and t in; the Secretariat may also prescribe direct importation from the country of origin. Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts w i th Yugoslav banks may use these f u n ds freely to import goods for their own use or for the use of close relatives residing with them and for purchases of certain domestically produced goods with 4In p r i n c i p l e, any such a l loca t ion among importers must be agreed on among economic organizations w i t h in the Chamber of Economy according to projections of material balances for each commodity, wh i ch are based on the projected growth rates of production. If the importers are un ab le to agree among themselves or if the allocation decided upon does not correspond to established principles, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade is authorized to decide on the d i s t r i b u t i o n. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dinars obtained by selling foreign exchange held in these accounts. Yugoslav nationals who have worked at least two years abroad continuously may import capital equipment necessary for performance of a legally permitted profes- sional activity, provided that these are imported w i th in a three-year period from the date of return, and that the value of each shipment is below Din 800,000. They may also freely import spare parts for maintenance of capital equipment. In addition, self-employed Yugoslav nation- als may import reproduction materials necessary for performance of a legally permitted professional activity, up to the value of Din 150,000 a year; this amount may be increased if the Yugoslav national in question employs other people. Separate regulations are applica- ble for imports of motor vehicles by Yugoslav nationals. They may import motor vehicles through a registered enterprise if payment is made through a foreign ex- change account held at a Yugoslav bank. Yugoslav nationals may also import motor vehicles directly from abroad if they have spent at least five years abroad or have worked at least two years abroad, provided that they return for permanent residence in Yugoslavia. Besides, they may import motor vehicles inherited or purchased out of an insurance indemnity received for motor vehicles that have been destroyed and had origin- ally been paid for in foreign currency. Such imports are also permissible for those who are war veterans or foreign nationals asking for permanent residence in Yugoslavia. A 1 percent tax for customs evidence and a 6 percent tax-equalization charge are payable on all commodities not exempt from customs du ty. Many agricultural commodities are subject to variable import levies. Returning resident travelers may bring in duty-free imports up to Din 200 a person. There are special facilities for fu ll or partial exemption for payment of customs duties on certain imports by Yugoslav workers returning from abroad. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange to cover expenses abroad for export promotion is made freely available to exporters. Pay- ments for other invisibles in relation to reproduction needs may be made from the remitter's own foreign exchange funds or from the foreign exchange accounts of organizations of associated labor on the basis of self- management agreements at the overall national level and in a small amount w i th in the self-management com- munities of interest of the republics and autonomous provinces. Purchases of services abroad, as well as spare parts, fue l, etc., by Yugoslav enterprises involved in international freight and passenger transportation, are liberalized. There is no exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. However, Yugoslav citizens are allowed to use YUGOSLAVIA balances from their foreign exchange accounts for tourist travel abroad. Under specified conditions, the following transfers may be effected abroad: payments for improving labor relationships, pensions, disability allowances, and pay- ments to recipients of an Order of the National Hero, alimony payments, payments for court-ordered compen- sations or indemnities, the profits of foreign contractors performing capital construction work in Yugoslavia, 10 percent of the proceeds from cultural, entertainment, sport, and other performances given by foreign groups or individuals. In addition, copyright royalties are transfer- able abroad if such transfers are based on reciprocity and if foreign exchange resources have been provided. Payments in respect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are fu l ly transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a country w i th which Yugoslavia maintains a bilateral payments arrangement, then such payment may be made only if the agreement in question provides for reciprocity. Transfers to convertible currency countries of funds realized by nonresidents by selling property inherited in Yugoslavia can be effected on the basis of the approval of the Federal Secretariat for Finance under conditions of reciprocity in inheritances and in transfers. Authorized banks may sell foreign currency to resi- dents for payment of medical treatment abroad, for remittances for court and other fees abroad and for specified personal expenses on the basis of approval from the appropriate authorities in the republics and autonomous provinces. Not more than Din 1,500 in domestic currency, in denominations of Din 100 or less, may be taken out (or brought in) by travelers on the first trip dur ing the year, and Din 200 a person can be taken out (or brought in) on subsequent trips during the same year. Foreign travelers may bring in and take out any amount in foreign exchange without declaring it. Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange earned through exports of goods and services and other forms of economic cooperation w i th foreign countries, as well as through purchases on the foreign exchange market, belongs to the particular organizations of associated labor that have taken part in its realization. An organization of associated labor may keep earned foreign exchange on the foreign exchange account, may sell it to an authorized bank, or may use it for its own payments abroad in accordance with the existing regulations. Exporters, organized by groups of economic activities, are required to (a) surrender 47.7 percent of earned foreign exchange to the National Bank of Yugoslavia, (b) allocate a portion among the members of the group on the basis of unified criteria established by the Yugoslav Community of Interest for Foreign Economic Relations (CIFER), and (c) sell any remaining portion in the un if ied foreign exchange mar- ket. By the end of 1983 the grouping of enterprises under this system had not been completed, necessitating certain ad hoc allocation arrangements. 529 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA In principle, exports are free of control. Certain raw materials that are in short supply in the domestic market (including petroleum and petroleum derivatives, certain livestock, vegetable oils) and certain other materials such as gunpowder, weapons, and narcotic drugs require licenses. Unless specifically exempted, proceeds from exports must be repatriated w i th in 90 days from the date of exportation, or w i th in 180 days under specified condi- tions. The surrender of these proceeds is not required. The fu ll export proceeds may be credited to foreign exchange sight-deposit accounts, which the exporter maintains with an authorized bank of his choice; separate accounts must be established for each currency. Ex- change on these accounts may be used in accordance w i th self-management agreements. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated w i th in 90 days from the date on which the claim is payable. The performance of construction and engineering services is subject to approval ("accordance") by the Federal Com- mittee for Energy and Industry. Exchange proceeds may be used for payments abroad connected w i th the activi- ties of the economic organization concerned, inc lud ing payments for purchases of equipment and other material for capital construction work abroad. The exchange proceeds are transferable to Yugoslavia w i th in 30 days from work completion and belong to the economic organizations that have earned them, or they can be sold to authorized banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. Residents who, wh i le employed abroad, deposited their savings in foreign savings banks and obtained a "bilingual savings book," issued under specific ar- rangements between Yugoslavia and foreign banks, may withdraw their balances in the form of foreign exchange when in Yugoslavia. Residents may hold interest- bearing foreign currency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited with the f u ll amount of a person's savings in foreign exchange. These accounts may be used for the personal needs of the account holder and of his immediate fam i ly; cash withdrawals are limited to US$250 a month and they are not transferable to other persons or accounts and may be retained indefinitely. Not more than Din 1,500 in Yugoslav bank notes, in denominations of Din 100 or less, may be brought in by travelers on the first trip during the year, and not more than Din 200 on subsequent trips dur ing the same year. Capital The organizations of associated labor and other social legal persons may borrow abroad in accordance w i th the general legislation established by the FEC and the unified criteria established by CIFER. All borrowing is subject to approval by the National Bank. Foreigners may invest in Yugoslav economic organ- izations but only through jo int ventures; apart from 530 exceptional cases, such foreign investment is limited to49 percent of the organization's capital. Profit transfers are permitted up to one half of the joint venture's foreign currency earnings from exports of goods and services. Realized profits from investments in organizations of associated labor in underdeveloped republics and the Province of Kosovo may be repatriated in f u l l. If the law governing jo int ventures were to be amended, the legal provisions in force on the date of registration of a jo int venture would con t inue to be applied dur ing the entire life of the investment contract, if the foreign investor so desires, or at the latter's option, any more favorable provisions of the amended legislation could be applied. Foreign firms are permitted to establish representational offices in Yugoslavia. The inves tment income earned abroad by Yugoslav economic organizations must be repatriated w i th in 90 days. Residents are obliged to repatriate foreign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Economic organizations w ish ing to participate in foreign enterprises may be allowed to export the neces- sary capital under special conditions set by federal law; such capital should be registered w i th the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. Gold In 1968 the Na t ional Bank issued certain commemora- tive gold coins, wh ich are legal tender. Foreign travelers are freely permitted to import and export these coins, subject to customs declaration, and for exports, subject to proof that they have been purchased in Yugoslavia. Residents who are private persons may hold gold coin in Yugoslavia but cannot export them except w i th the approval of the National Bank of Yugoslavia. Such gold coin may be sold to any authorized bank, and they may freely hold, purchase, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold in accordance w i th the ex is t ing regula- tions on trade in goods and on control of articles made from precious metals. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as traders in gold may import gold jewelry under the DK import regime; they may freely export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Authorized banks may freely export gold coin. Producers may export newly mined gold or sell it to specified users at home at the average price on the in terna t ional gold market. Domestic sales of newly m ined gold by the producers may be made at a price wh ich equals the average quotation in free gold markets abroad. Domestic economic organizations using gold for their normal activities may purchase gold from domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each such organization ind iv idua l ly. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement The buy ing and selling rates of the Yugoslav dinar were changed on numerous occasions du r ing 1983, invo lv ing a depreciation from Din 62.3928 and Din 62.5802 = US$1, respectively on December 31, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 1982 to Din 127.2445 and Din 127.6268 = US$1, respectively on December 31, 1983. Imports and Import Payments January 1. A law amend ing and supp l em en t ing the existing Law on Foreign Exchange Operations and Credit Re la t ions w i th Foreign Coun t r ies came in to effect, specifying rules on the basis of wh ich organiza- t ions of associated labor were to allocate earned fore ign exchange for var ious purposes according to self- management agreements. P r io r i t ies under the ru les were given to se t t lement of debt se rv ic ing ob l iga t ions, repro- duc t ion requ iremen ts of enterprises, and the sa t is fac t ion of general social and collective needs (see "Exports and Export Proceeds," below). March I I. Au tho r iza t ion w as granted f or Yugos lav nationals who have worked at least two years abroad to import capital equ ipment up to Din 800,000 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds January I. A law amend ing and supp l em en t ing the Law on Foreign Exchange Operations and Credit Rela- t ions w i th Foreign Coun tr ies came in to e f fec t, l ay ing down regulations on the basis of wh ich organizations of associated labor were to allocate earned fore ign ex- change for various purposes according to self- management agreements. A specified por t ion of fore ign exchange earnings was to be surrendered to the Na t ional Bank of Yugos lav ia; groups of enterprises, according to economic ac t iv i ty, were to agree among themse lves (on the basis of u n i f i ed criteria established by the Commu- n i ty of Interest for Foreign Economic Re la t ions (C IFER) on how much of the rema inder shou ld be retained by each group; any r em a in ing fore ign exchange was re- quired to be sold to the un i f ied foreign exchange marke t. The proportion required to be surrendered to the Na t ional Bank and the purpose for wh ich it was to be used were modified several t imes d u r i ng 1983; at the end of the year, the surrender requirement amounted to 47.7 per- cent of export receipts, of wh ich 20 percent was allocated to imports of energy raw ma ter ia ls, 5 percent to the needs of the federa t ion, 3 percent to the N a t i o n al Bank reserves, 15 percent to the requ i remen ts of repub- YUGOSLAVIA lics and provinces, and 4.7 percent to a fund for repayment of foreign obligations of enterprises unab le to make such repayments out of the ir own resources. January I. The m a x im um period for the repatriation of export proceeds was extended from 60 days to 90 days. April 15. Un i f i ed criteria were adopted, on the basis of wh ich enterprises grouped according to economic a c t iv i ty were to establish the portion of earned foreign exchange to be retained by them. Retention rates for the repayment of foreign f inanc ial obligations were set as the ratio of estimated obligations in 1983 to total export receipts in 1982, increased by 20 percent. Basic reten- t ion rates for produc t ion needs were fixed at 80 percent of the ratio of such needs (exc lud ing capital goods) to exports d u r i ng 1981-82. Proceeds from and Payments for Invisibles February 25. The deposit scheme for nationals t rave l ing abroad was extended, w i th exceptions. The changes were scheduled to take effect by the end of the year. Capital March 19. A law on the incurrence of foreign commodity loans came into effect, l im i t ing use of such credits to paymen ts for imports of raw materials and production supplies for the manufacture of goods for export to the conver t ib le currency area. June 18. The u n i f i ed cr i ter ia for foreign borrowing and lend ing in 1983, based on the law amend ing the Law on Foreign Exchange Operations and Credit Relations w i th Foreign Coun tr ies, entered in to effec t, setting up a list of pr ior i t ies for wh ich equ ipment goods could be imported on credit terms. July 6. A law on payments in convertible foreign exchange was passed, according to which enterprises able to service the ir foreign debts from the ir own foreign earnings could progressively draw on their associated group of enterprises, the ir own bank, all banks in the repub l ic and province of residence, or a pool established at the Na t ional Bank from con tr ibu t ions by enterprises th roughout the coun t ry. 531 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangements The currency of Zaire is the Zaire. Beg inn ing from September 12, 1983, the Bank of Zaire (the central bank) fixes the daily official rate of the zaire on the basis of the prevailing free market exchange rate; the latter rate is determined by the free interplay of supply and demand in the interbank market. The spread between the official and free market exchange rates is subject to max imum limits, equal to 5 percent since October 14, 1983.1 As the free market rate varies on a daily basis, the official rate is adjusted by the Bank of Zaire when necessary to ensure observance of the prevailing spread between the two rates. A weekly f ix ing is conducted every Friday, under which the f ix ing rate is set at a level which allows the largest buy ing bid to be transacted; bids w i thout limits are effected first, and to the extent possible those for specified amounts could be effected on a split basis. Whatever is the weekly f ix ing rate, commercial banks are free to negotiate the rates in their daily transactions among themselves, as well as w i th their clients. The official exchange rate is restricted to the opera- tions of the Bank of Zaire; the free market exchange rate applies to all other transactions. On the buy ing side, transactions on the official market are limited to receipts from GECAMINES, royalties and taxes from oil compa- nies, purchases from the IMF, specified operations of the Bank of Zaire for its own purposes, and specified gov- ernment revenue in foreign exchange. On the selling side, transactions at the official rate are limited to outlays for oil imports, external public debt service, IMF charges and repurchases, operational costs of the Bank of Zaire, and specified priority imports and payments for invisibles by the Government. All other foreign ex- change transactions are required to pass through the free market and can be carried out only by authorized banks and other authorized intermediaries. Official exchange rates for the zaire against 19 curren- cies2 in which authorized banks (and other inter- mediaries) are permitted to deal are published daily by the Bank of Zaire; the rates for the zaire against these currencies, other than the U .S. dollar, are fixed daily by the Bank of Zaire on the basis of the SDR rates for these currencies. Forward exchange transactions are autho- rized under specified conditions. In addition to a com- !In the context of an ongoing external ad jus tment program, the spread was reduced to 2.5 percent on February 1, 1984, and the two markets were scheduled to be unified by the end of the month. 2Belgian francs, Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Rwanda francs, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. 532 mission charge of not more than 1 percent, foreign ex- change transactions between the authorized commercial banks and nonbank customers are subject to an exchange control fee of 3 per m i l, payable to the Bank of Zaire. There are no commission charges or exchange fees on foreign exchange transactions in the interbank market. Administration of Control The Bank of Zaire has regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments, including discretionary power to authorize residents to hold foreign exchange abroad and to use it to pay for certain goods and services. The Public Debt Management Office (OGEDEP), oper- ating under the aegis of the Department of Finance and Budget, manages the medium- and long-term external public and publicly guaranteed debt, is responsible for its servicing, and advises the Executive Council on external debt policy, including guarantees extended by the Gov- ernment on loans contracted by public, semipublic, and private enterprises. In principle, no new external bor- rowing may be contracted or guaranteed by the Govern- ment w i thout the prior advice of OGEDEP and the Bank of Zaire. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents must be received in the listed convertible currencies quoted by the Bank of Zaire (see footnote 2). Special authorization for the acceptance of any other currency may be given only in respect of currencies that can be exchanged freely without a dis- count. Except for working balances, all currencies re- ceived must be converted into a convertible currency. Payments to nonresidents must be made in one of the listed convertible currencies; certain settlements with Angola, Bu rund i, and Rwanda are made through special accounts established under arrangements concluded by the Bank of Zaire w i th the central banks of the countries concerned. Balances on these special accounts are settled on a quarterly basis in convertible currencies. Virtually all settlements (other than for re-exports) with the mem- ber countries of the Banque des Etats de TAfr ique Cen- trale (BEAC)3 are effected through the Central African Clearing House (Chambre de Compensation de 1' Afrique Centrale). Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, Nonresident Convertible Accounts (comptes etrangers convertibles), Nonresident Ordinary Accounts (comptes etrangers or- dinaires), and Nonresident Special Acounts (comptes 3Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, and Gabon. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution etrangers indisponibles). All nonresident accounts are noninterest-bearing sight deposits, and no overdraft is permitted. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, as well as nonresident convertible and special accounts, can be opened without the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire at any authorized commercial bank. With a few exceptions, the opening of nonresident ordinary accounts requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire; such authorization is not required when accounts are opened for embassies and other diplomatic missions (including those representing international and official multinational organizations), official civil and military missions, representative offices in Zaire of foreign trans- portation companies, and nonresidents entitled to receive payments in zaires for services rendered in Zaire under agreements with or approved by the Executive Council or the Bank of Zaire. Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be cred- ited for foreign currency payments by residents in the following cases: (a) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (b) transfers of foreign currencies from nonresi- dent convertible accounts; (c) foreign exchange proceeds resulting directly from arbitrage transactions; (d) inward transfers in foreign currencies from nonresidents and from foreign exchange accounts held abroad; (e) pay- ments in foreign currencies made by nonresidents; and (f) transfers in foreign currencies from other nonresident foreign currency accounts. Nonresident foreign currency accounts may be debited for payments in foreign cur- rency to residents in the following cases: (a) payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (b) sales of foreign currency to any authorized commercial bank against zaires with proceeds to be transferred to nonresident convertible accounts; (c) foreign exchange proceeds from arbitrage transactions in foreign currencies; (d) out- ward transfers in foreign currencies; (e) transfers to other nonresident foreign currency accounts; (f) withdrawals of bank notes or traveler's checks by the holder of such accounts; and (g) banking commissions and fees. Nonresident Convertible Accounts may be credited for (a) spot purchases of domestic currency against foreign currencies on the interbank market; (b) transfers from other nonresident convertible accounts as well as from nonresident foreign currency accounts; and (c) payments by authorized commercial banks for services rendered in Zaire and authorized for settlement in either domestic or foreign currency by the Bank of Zaire. They may be debited for (a) payments (with the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire) to residents for services rendered in Zaire (excluding exports of goods and services), (b) pur- chases on the interbank market of foreign currencies and of any forms of payments for travel expenses abroad, (c) transfers to other nonresident convertible accounts and purchases of bank notes or any other form of payment in zaires at any authorized commercial bank, and (d) bank- ing commissions and fees. Nonresident Ordinary Accounts may be credited w i th (a) sales of foreign exchange against zaires, received as ZAIRE down payments or transferred from abroad, (b) transfers in zaires from nonresident convertible accounts, and (c) receipts in zaires from residents on account of ser- vices rendered in Zaire, rental of real estate properties and working equipment and facilities, transportation fares, consular and chancery fees, and other services as specified by the Bank of Zaire at the time of opening such accounts. Nonresident ordinary accounts may be debited with (a) payments in zaires to residents on ac- count of local purchases of goods and services, dues, taxes, and banking commissions and fees; (b) transfers to other nonresident ordinary accounts of the same holder; and (c) withdrawals of bank notes or any other means of payment in zaires. In addition, assets held in nonresident ordinary accounts are not transferable abroad, nor can they be transferred to nonresident convertible accounts. Nonresident Special Accounts can be opened for non- residents entitled to receive specified payments on ac- count of (a) sale or rent from real estate properties and other fixed capital located in Zaire and owned by nonres- idents; and (b) sale of businesses and goodwills, as well as shares in agricultural, commercial, industrial, and services companies located in Zaire and owned by non- residents. In addition, all assets denominated in zaires and owned by non-Zairian residents f ina l ly departing from Zaire must be deposited in or transferred to a nonresident special account opened on behalf of or under the name of the respective persons, as are proceeds from sale of real estate or the renting of fixed capital owned by non-Zairian residents who subsequently become nonresi- dents. Accounts under this category can be debited only for (a) travel expenses incurred by the holders of such accounts up to a max imum of SDR 150 a day (for a max imum period of two months); (b) transportation fares (excluding airline tickets) incurred by the holders when traveling w i th in Zaire; (c) transfers to religious organiza- tions or any nonprofit cu l tura l, philanthropic, or social organizations (up to a max imum of SDR 10,000 a year); (d) banking commissions and fees; (e) state and local taxes due in Zaire; (f) medical fees; (g) insurance and maintenance fees of fixed capital (including real estate properties); and (h) any other payment authorized by the Bank of Zaire. Imports and Import Payments Importation of a number of goods consisting mainly of arms, explosives and ammun i t ion, narcotics, materials contrary to public morals, certain alcoholic beverages, and equipment for aerial and maritime navigation is prohibited (or requires a special authorization from the Executive Council) on grounds of public policy. Impor- tation of secondhand u t i l i ty vehicles for agriculture and forestry requires a prior authorization from the Ministry of National Economy, Industry, and Foreign Trade. Im- ports of a number of items classified as nonessential imports (namely, crude petroleum oils, petroleum or mineral oils, petroleum gas, inorganic or organic compo- nents of radioactive elements, rare earth metals, and isotopes, powders and explosives; pyrotechnical prod- 533 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE ucts; matches; pyrophoric alloys; and combustible mate- rials) require prior approval by the Bank of Zaire. All other imports are subject only to an import declaration at the authorized banks. Applications for import licenses for nonessential im- ports are submitted through authorized banks, wh ich, after certification, forward them to the Bank of Zaire for approval. The import license application is returned to the authorized bank for prior approval (visa); approval is generally granted within two days upon verification that the fiscal requirements and authorizations from the re- spective ministries are obtained. Import licenses validated by the authorized banks and import declara- tions registered by them remain valid for customs clear- ance for six months, but the validity may be extended if shipment has begun. Extension of the validity period requires authorization from the Bank of Zaire. Imports are subject to a foreign exchange allocation system (coefficients de preaffectation). Beginning Sep- tember 12, 1983, the system limits each commercial bank's financing of imports of goods and associated expenses (including preshipment control expenses and financing costs on foreign credits) to 75 percent of its retained earnings from exports and invisibles. In addi- tion, commercial banks are required to observe the limit of 25 percent on payments for invisibles, other than those treated as expenses associated w i th imports. Payments for imports may be made either upon arrival or upon shipment (including payments up to 30 days from date of shipment). Payments for essential and non- essential imports, for which licenses had been validated before September 12, 1983, must be made w i th in 90 days and 180 days, respectively. Payments upon shipment are authorized provided that the importer ob- tains a 6 percent rebate on the f.o.b. value. Means of payment must be indicated on all import declaration forms. Interest payments on foreign f inanc ing for im- ports are authorized only if the importer has obtained a supplier's credit or other form of foreign f inanc ing w i th a maturity of at least 90 days, and provided that no ad- vance deposit in foreign currency w i th the foreign corre- spondent of the authorized bank involved has been made. A detailed record of all f inanc ing charges is re- quired to be submitted by the foreign correspondent to the domestic authorized bank and is used as a basic document to ju s t i fy any payments of import f inanc ing charges. Financing charges are treated as invisible pay- ments associated with the import transaction involved and, in accordance w i th the provisions of Article 10 of Circular No. 199 regarding the foreign exchange alloca- tion system for commercial banks. Authorized banks are allowed to pay transportation costs and shipping insur- ance in foreign currency only for import payments made on an f .o .b. basis. In principle, the amount, the invoice price, and the quality of all imports must be verified and found acceptable by the foreign agents of the Office Zairois de Controle (OzAC), but importers are not re- quired to submit to their banks the verification certifi- cates delivered by OZAC (or any of its agents abroad) 534 with respect to preshipment controls for imports paid upon delivery in Zaire with a value ( f .o .b .) of less than SDR 1,000. Prior approval of the Bank of Zaire is required for (a) imports transported by air carriers other than Air Zaire w i th charges payable in foreign currency to foreign airline companies or transported by air with charges payable in foreign currency to resident airline compa- nies, if the transportation costs exceed the f .o .b. value by 20 percent; (b) imports in the form of foreign grants to residents other than the state and subordinate authorities, whenever the value exceeds SDR 500; (c) imports with a value in excess of SDR 500 in the form of foreign contributions to capital; (d) imports financed with sup- pliers' credits or other forms of foreign financing with a maturity exceeding one year, other than those contracted or guaranteed by the Government and which carry inter- est charges; (e) imports requiring a down payment in foreign currency prior to shipment; and (f) all imports financed with means of payment other than foreign ex- change purchases from authorized commercial banks in Zaire, proceeds from foreign accounts held abroad with the authorization of the Bank of Zaire, foreign grants, foreign contributions to capital, and customary short- term foreign trade f inanc ing. Prior approval of the Bank of Zaire is not required for (a) imports in the form of foreign grants to the state and subordinate authorities or financed through suppliers' credits or other forms of foreign credit with a maturity of more than one year contracted or guaranteed by the Government; (b) imports for use in the operations of foreign transportation companies represented in Zaire; (c) diplomatic imports; (d) imports in the form of foreign grants in kind with a value of up to SDR 500 (up to unlimited amounts for imports in the form of foreign grants to recognized religious, philanthropic, scientific, or cultural organizations); (e) commercial samples with- out market value; (f) imports in the form of foreign contributions to physical capital w i th a value of up to SDR 500; (g) goods for personal use imported into Zaire in connection with relocation; (h) baggage and personal objects of travelers; (i) imports of journals, periodicals, and newspapers for personal use as well as for domestic sale, as permitted by the Executive Council; (j) imports in the form of foreign contributions to capital under the Investment Code or the ZOFI regime; (k) imports of up to SDR 200 transported by Air Zaire and with freight payable in foreign currency; (1) emergency imports of spare parts, Pharmaceuticals, and precision instruments w i th a value of up to SDR 500; and (m) imports of data processing equipment, provided a prior authorization has been granted by SPIZ. Imports effected under bilateral aid arrangements be- tween Zaire and specified countries (Belgium, Canada, the People's Republic of China, the Federal Republic of Germany, Great Britain, Japan, and the United States) are governed by separate provisions. Certain import payments have been delayed. These arrears have largely been centralized at the Bank of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Zaire, which is in the process of settling them in accor- dance with policy priorities, due dates, and the avail- ability of foreign exchange. Arrears on payments due to official creditors and to some commercial banks have been the subject of rescheduling or refinancing agreements. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles (other than those associated with imports of goods) are limited to 25 percent of each bank's retained foreign exchange earnings. In principle, all payments for invisibles are subject to authorization by the Bank of Zaire. The Bank of Zaire w i ll not authorize the payment in foreign exchange of commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents. Imports and exports between Zaire and ports in Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the Scan- dinavian countries must be shipped in vessels participa- ting in the conference of the Associated Central West Africa Lines. Banks are not authorized to pay in foreign currency the maritime freight on shipments that do not meet these regulations, unless an immediate discount is obtained on the invoice. For other items, declarations of foreign exchange commitment are subject to prior ap- proval by the Bank of Zaire. Banks may effect maritime freight payments in foreign currency at the time of ship- ment only for imports payable upon shipment; they may also effect maritime freight payments in foreign currency at the time of shipment for imports payable upon arrival, provided that the payment is made directly to the carrier. Maritime freight charges may be paid in Zaire in local currency when goods are transported entirely by the Compagnie Maritime Zai'roise. Other payments relating to services performed by non- residents are, in principle, permitted. However, outward remittances of remunerations by expatriate employees during the year are limited to the levels authorized during 1981; the transfer abroad of salaries of newly hired expatriates is limited to 50 percent of salary, provided that the nontransferable amount is sufficient to meet local needs. Medical and pharmaceutical expenses in- curred by expatriate personnel on leave are no longer reimbursable. Transfers pertaining to certain administra- tive expenses that firms incur abroad, interest on private loans, and payment of certain portions of insurance pre- miums are generally permitted. Transfers of net profits of firms with foreign participation have been suspended, except where the transfer of such profits is expressly guaranteed by the Investment Code or by bilateral agree- ments. Transfers of nonresidents' rental income are sus- pended. Payments for commissions, management and miscellaneous fees, and royalties may be authorized in some cases. Tickets for travel abroad may be purchased in Zaire for trips starting in Zaire. However, residents of Zairian nationality may travel by a foreign airline only with the permission of the Department of Transportation and Communication. Resident expatriates are, in gen- eral, permitted once a year to purchase in domestic ZAIRE currency a direct round-trip ticket to their country of origin. Zairian nationals traveling abroad on official mis- sions may buy foreign exchange in amounts that depend on the duration of the journey and the status of the traveler. Residents in Zaire are allowed to purchase foreign exchange at the authorized commercial banks to cover the following expenditures: travel expenses, med- ical expenses, and students' tuition and living costs as well as training expenses incurred abroad. For trips to Burundi and Rwanda, tourists and households residing in the border area are entitled once a month to purchase the equivalent of SDR 100 in Burundi or Rwanda francs. The import (or export) of Zairian notes and coins as well as of other Zairian means of payments by both residents and nonresidents is prohibited. However, the import of such means of payment by travelers from Burundi and Rwanda remains authorized. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports not covered by general declarations re- quire individual declarations. Banks are normally autho- rized to approve such declarations. The declaration must specify the nature of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be re- ceived. Declarations of foreign exchange commitment are normally valid for 45 days; within this period, the proceeds must be received and surrendered. However, receipts from agricultural exports can be repatriated within three months of validation. Coffee may be ex- ported only by recognized coffee exporters; such exports are subject to quality control. Special provisions apply to mineral production of the Generate des Carrieres et des Mines du Zaire (GECAMINES), which is marketed exclu- sively by the Societe Zai'roise de Commercialisation des Produits Miniers (SozACOM) or its subsidiary, Societe Zai'roise (SOZAREX). On shipment, SOZACOM credits the account of GECAMINES with a provisional payment of a portion of the shipment's estimated value and with the balance of the proceeds upon execution of the sales contract. GECAMINES is authorized to retain 45 percent of its export proceeds, or Belgian francs 1.2 billion a month, whichever is greater, with banks abroad or in Zaire, for meeting its own payments abroad, and must surrender the remainder of its proceeds as well as any end-of-month balances on retained earnings in excess of BF 800 million to the Bank of Zaire. After deduction of marketing costs, SOZACOM is required to surrender its export proceeds to the Bank of Zaire and to the producers. Partial nonrepatriation and retention abroad are also permitted for a limited number of other enterprises, in- cluding the Societe de Developpement Industriel et Minier du Zaire (SODIMIZA—75 percent) and the Societe Miniere de Bakwanga (MiBA —20 percent), while fu ll retention of export receipts in accounts abroad are per- mitted in some other cases, notably the oil corporations. The trade of artisanal gold and diamonds is in principle free, with exports being channelled through authorized marketing agencies (comptoirs agrees). Industrial dia- 535 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE monds are sold through the De Beers Group. M in imum export prices have been established for coffee, cocoa, tea, ivory, papain, rauwolfia, and cinchona. The export of Zairian notes and coins as well as other Zairian means of payment is prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained by the authorized banks. Provided that they make the neces- sary declaration, nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign means of payment and may take out on departure the amount declared on entry less the equiv- alent of the expenses incurred dur ing their stay in Zaire. Capital The repatriation of foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code is guaranteed, as is the transfer of profits and dividends on such capital. With minor exceptions, transfers abroad of capital owned by residents or nonresidents are not authorized. Gratuitous transfers of ownership of real estate are sub- ject to approval by departmental ordinance. The foreign currency assets of the authorized banks are not permitted to exceed their short-term liabilities in foreign curren- cies. Certain capital repayments have been delayed. Ar- rears on principal repayable to official creditors and some commercial banks are the subject of consolidation agreements. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities and pro- ducers of gold are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form. With the exception of jewelry, imports and exports of gold require prior authorization from the Bank of Zaire. Gold produced by m in ing companies is purchased by the Bank of Zaire under agreed terms. The Bank of Zaire may authorize part of the gold produced by these companies to be sold to residents for their industrial activities. There is free trade in domestic gold mined by small-scale producers. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement January 6. A special marketing arrangement (the re- lance miniere market) was formally introduced for arti- sanal gold and diamonds, under which such trade was liberalized, and a number of marketing agencies were authorized to purchase these commodities from produc- ers and to dispose of their repatriated proceeds through the commercial banks at a substantially depreciated rate (called the relance miniere rate). Informa l ly in effect since September 1981, the relance miniere rate was fixed on a weekly basis by the Customs and Excise Office (OFIDA) on the basis of the rate used for the customs valuation of imports made w i thout recourse to official foreign exchange (the so-called SAD imports). September 12. The official exchange rate of the zai're was changed from Z 1 = SDR 0.15750 to Z 1 = SDR 0.03542, representing a devaluation of 77.5 per- cent, and the fixed parity between the zaire and the SDR introduced on March 12, 1976 was discontinued. In add i t ion, a temporary dual exchange market arrangement was introduced. The arrangement consisted of an official market restricted to the operations of the Bank of Zaire, and a free market covering the operations of the rest of the bank ing system. On the receipts side, transactions through the official market were limited to receipts from GECAMINES, royalties and taxes from oil companies, pur- chases from the IMF, specified operations of the Bank of Zaire for its own purposes, and specified government revenue in foreign exchange. On the selling side, official transactions were limited to oil imports, external public debt service, IMF charges and repurchases, operating costs of the Bank of Zaire, and specified priority imports as well as payments for invisibles by the Government. All other foreign exchange transactions were required to pass through the free market and to be carried out only by authorized banks and other authorized intermediaries. For the week of September 12, 1983, the free market exchange rate declared by the Bank of Zaire was at the same level as that of the prevailing relance miniere rate, that is Z 29.9253 per US$1; subsequently through Octo- ber 14, 1983, the free rate was determined on a weekly basis by the commercial banks, in consultation with the Bank of Zaire. The spread between the official and the free exchange rates was set at a max imum of 10 percent, and the official exchange rate was required to be adjusted by the Bank of Zaire whenever any new f ix ing of the free rate would involve a spread wider than 10 percent be- tween the two rates. September 20. Regulations on the introduction of a forward exchange market were issued, specifying that only resident exporters of goods and services, be- neficiaries of foreign exchange financing received from abroad, and former holders of relance miniere exchange (RME) accounts were allowed to buy forward foreign exchange (up to 60 days) on the interbank market to meet scheduled expenditures, and to sell forward foreign ex- change (up to 60 days) on the same market. Authorized banks were authorized to enter into any forward transac- tions in respect of their foreign exchange commitments. (These regulations had not yet entered into effect by the end of 1983 and were expected to be revised.) October 14. An interbank foreign exchange market came into operation, on which the free exchange rate was required to be determined. In addition, the spread between the official and the free rates was reduced from 10 percent to 5 percent. Nonresident Accounts September 21. In a modification of facilities for non- resident accounts, authorized banks were authorized to open three types of nonresident foreign currency ac- counts (separate from existing Nonresident Foreign Cur- rency Accounts) as follows: (a) Nonresident Convertible Accounts (comptes etrangers convertibles)', (b) Nonresi- dent Ordinary Accounts (comptes etrangers gers indisponibles). All nonresident accounts were re- quired to be in the form of noninterest-bearing sight deposits, and overdrafts were prohibited. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, Nonresident Convertible Accounts, and Nonresident Special Ac- counts could be opened without the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire at any authorized commercial bank; with a few exceptions, the opening of nonresident ordi- nary accounts was made subject to prior authorization by the Bank of Zaire; such authorization would not be required when accounts were opened for embassies and other diplomatic missions (including those representing international and official multinational organizations), official civil and military missions, representative offices in Zaire of foreign transportation companies, and nonres- idents entitled to receive payments in zaires in connec- tion with services delivered in Zaire under agreements directly contracted with or approved by the Executive Council or the Bank of Zaire. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts could be credited for payments in foreign currency by residents in the following cases: (a) such payments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (b) transfers of foreign currencies from nonresident convertible accounts; (c) foreign exchange proceeds resulting directly from arbitrage transactions; (d) inward transfers in foreign currencies from nonresi- dents and from foreign exchange accounts held abroad; (e) payments in foreign currencies made by nonresidents; and (f) transfers in foreign currencies from other nonresi- dent foreign currency accounts. Nonresident foreign cur- rency accounts could be debited for payments in foreign currency to residents in the following cases: (a) pay- ments authorized by the Bank of Zaire; (b) sales of foreign currency to any authorized commercial bank against zaires with proceeds to be transferred to nonresi- dent convertible accounts; (c) foreign exchange proceeds from arbitrage transactions in foreign currencies; (d) outward transfers in foreign currencies; (e) transfers to other nonresident foreign currency accounts; (f) with- drawals of bank notes or traveler's checks by the holder of such accounts; and (g) banking commissions and fees. Nonresident Convertible Accounts could be credited for (a) spot purchases of domestic currency against foreign currencies on the interbank market; (b) transfers from other Nonresident Convertible Accounts as well as from Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts; and (c) payments by authorized commercial banks for ser- vices rendered in Zaire and authorized for settlement in either domestic or foreign currency by the Bank of Zaire. They could be debited for (a) payments (with the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire) to residents for ser- vices rendered in Zaire (excluding exports of goods and services); (b) purchases on the interbank market of foreign currencies and of any forms of payment for travel expenses abroad; (c) transfers to other nonresident con- vertible accounts and purchases of bank notes or any other form of payment in zaires at any authorized com- mercial bank; and (d) banking commissions and fees. ZAIRE Nonresident Ordinary Accounts could be credited with (a) sales of foreign exchange against zaires received as down payments or transferred from abroad; (b) transfers in zaires from nonresident convertible accounts; and (c) receipts in zaires from residents on account of ser- vices rendered in Zaire, rental of real estate properties and working equipment and facilities, transportation fares, consular and chancery fees, and other services as specified by the Bank of Zaire at the time of opening such accounts. They could be debited with (a) payments in zaires to residents on account of local purchases of goods and services, dues, taxes, and banking commis- sions and fees; (b) transfers to other nonresident ordinary accounts of the same holder; and (c) withdrawals of bank notes or any other means of payment in zaires. In addi- tion, assets held in nonresident ordinary accounts were no longer permitted to be transferred abroad or to nonres- ident convertible accounts. Nonresident Special Accounts could be opened for nonresidents entitled to receive specified payments on account of (a) sale or rent from real estate properties and other fixed capital located in Zaire and owned by nonres- idents; and (b) sale of businesses and goodwills, as well as shares in agricultural, commercial, industrial, and service companies located in Zaire and owned by nonres- idents. In addition, all assets denominated in zaires and owned by non-Zairian residents finally departing from Zaire were required to be deposited in or transferred to a nonresident special account opened on behalf of or under the name of the respective persons, as were proceeds from sale of real estate or the renting of fixed capital owned by non-Zairian residents subsequently becoming nonresidents. It was also specified that nonresident spe- cial accounts could be debited only for (a) travel ex- penses incurred by the holders of such accounts up to a maximum of SDR 150 a day (for a maximum period of two months); (b) transportation fares (excluding airline tickets) incurred by the holders when traveling within Zaire; (c) transfers to religious organizations or any non- profit cultural, philanthropic, or social organizations (up to a maximum of SDR 10,000 a year); (d) banking commissions and fees; (e) state and local taxes due in Zaire; (f) medical fees; (g) insurance and maintenance fees of fixed capital, (including real estate); and (h) any other payment authorized by the Bank of Zaire. Imports and Import Payments January 26. It was announced that importers would no longer be required to submit to their banks the verifi- cation certificates furnished by OZAC concerning preshipment inspection of imports made against pay- ments on delivery in Zaire, up to an f.o.b. value of less than SDR 2,500 if such payment was financed through the SAD system or the relance miniere market, and up to SDR 1,000 in all other cases. (The Bank of Zaire could, upon request through authorized banks, allow importers not to submit verification certificates delivered by OZAC with respect to preshipment controls.) March 1. Banks were instructed to make payments abroad on account of the control costs incurred abroad by 537 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE OZAC or its foreign agents. Such payments and the sup- porting evidence were required to be submitted to the Bank of Zaire for review. September 12. Import licensing regulations were sim- plified through the introduction of a provisional negative list consisting of nonessential items the importation of which were made subject to prior approval by the Bank of Zaire, with all other imports being subject only to an import declaration at the authorized banks. Applications for import licenses for specified nonessential imports were required to be submitted through authorized banks, which would forward them to the Bank of Zaire for prior approval. Applications for import licenses for items other than those classified as nonessential (List I) or prohibited (List II) were made subject to simple import declarations at the authorized banks. The banned items consisted of those prohibited on grounds of public policy (e.g., arms, explosives and ammun i t ion, narcotics, ma- terials contrary to public morals, and certain alcoholic beverages) or for reasons of economic policy (e .g ., cer- tain cotton items, textiles and c lo th ing, secondhand clothes, and used cars). Payments for essential imports no longer had to be made within 90 days and those for nonessential imports within 180 days, but payments upon shipment continued to be authorized provided that the importer obtained a 6 percent rebate on the f .o .b. va lue. Interest payments on foreign financing for imports were authorized only if the importer had obtained a supplier's credit or other form of foreign f inanc ing w i th a ma tu r i ty of at least 90 days and provided that no advance deposit in foreign currency with the foreign correspondent of the authorized bank had been made. A detailed record of all f inanc ing charges was required to be submitted by the foreign correspondent to the domestic authorized bank, and would be used as a basic document to ju s t i fy any pay- ments of the import f inanc ing charges. Financing charges were treated for accounting purposes as ex- penses associated with the import transaction involved, not as invisible paymen ts. Authorized banks were allowed to pay transportation costs and shipping insur- ance in foreign currency only for imports payments made on an f .o .b. basis. In addition, import duties were lowered on specified items as follows: food and nonfood products from 10 percent to 3 percent; intermediate industrial goods and inputs, from 20 percent to 3 percent; certain u t i l i ty vehicles, from a range of 72 —167 percent to 50 percent; and petroleum products, from 18 to 12 percent. On the other hand, import duties were raised on specified other goods as follows: private vehicles, from 130 percent to 200 percent; electrical appliances, from 67 percent to 200 percent; decorative articles, from 50 percent to 100 percent; luxury foods tuffs, from 50 percent to 100 percent; and other nonpriority items, from 90 percent to 130 percent. In addition, the statistical tax on imports was abolished and the procedures for the calculation of customs duties were simplified. 538 Among other changes, the fo l low ing items were made subject to prior approval by the Bank of Zaire: (a) im- ports transported by air carriers other than Air Zaire, or transported by air w i th charges payable in foreign cur- rency to resident a ir l ine companies, if the transportation costs should exceed the f .o .b. value by 20 percent; (b) imports in the form of foreign grants in kind to resi- dents other than the state and subordinate authorities, whenever the value exceeds SDR 500; (c) imports with a value in excess of SDR 500 in the form of foreign contributions to phys ical capital; (d) imports financed w i th suppliers' credits or other forms of foreign financ- ing at interest w i th a ma tu r i ty exceeding one year, other than those contracted or guaranteed by the Government; and (e) imports requ i r ing a down payment in foreign currency prior to sh ipmen t. Prior approval by the Bank of Zaire would not be required for (a) imports in the form of foreign grants to the state and subordinate authorities or financed through supp l iers' credits or other forms of foreign f inanc ing w i th a ma tu r i ty of more than one year contracted or guaranteed by the Government; (b) imports for use in the operations of foreign transportation compa- nies represented in Zaire; (c) diplomatic imports; (d) im- ports in the form of foreign grants in k ind to recognized philanthropic organizations w i th a value of up to SDR 500; (e) commercial samples w i thout market value; (f) imports in the form of foreign contributions to phys- ical capital w i th a va lue of up to SDR 500; (g) goods for personal use imported into Zaire in connection with relocation; (h) baggage and personal objects of travelers; and (i) imports of journa ls and periodicals. November 25. Certain regu la t ions on import pay- ments issued on September 12, 1983 were modified as follows: prior approval of the Bank of Zaire was made mandatory for (a) imports transported by air carriers other than Air Zaire w i th charges payable in foreign currency to foreign a ir l ine companies or transported by air w i th charges payable in foreign currency to resident airline companies, if the transportation costs exceed the f .o .b. value by 20 percent; and (b) imports financed w i th means of payment other than foreign exchange purchases from authorized commercial banks in Zaire, or with proceeds from foreign exchange accounts held abroad w i th the authorization of the Bank of Zaire, foreign grants, foreign contributions to capital, and customary short-term foreign trade f in an c ing. Prior approval by the Bank of Zaire would not be required for (a) imports in the form of foreign grants w i th a va lue of up to SDR 500 (except those to recognized religious, philanthropic, sci- en t i f ic, or cu l tu ral organizations to wh ich no va lue limits were applied); (b) imports of jou rna ls, periodicals, and newspapers for personal use, as well as domestic sale, as permitted by the Executive Council; (c) imports made in the form of foreign contributions to capital under the Inves tment Code or the ZOFI regime; (d) imports of up to SDR 200, transported by Air Zaire, w i th freight pay- able in foreign currency; (e) emergency imports of spare parts, Pharmaceuticals, and precision ins trumen ts w i th a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution value of up to SDR 500; and (f) imports of data process- ing equipment, provided that prior authorization had been granted by SPIZ. December 1. Import licensing regulations were further modified w i th the issuance of a negative list of nonessential imports subject to prior approval (visa) by the Bank of Zaire, and a new list of prohibited imports. The formal negative list of nonessential imports con- sisted of a limited number of items, name ly, crude petro- leum oil, petroleum or mineral oils, petroleum gas, inor- ganic or organic components of radioactive elements, rare earth metals, isotopes, powders, and explosives, pyrotechnical products, matches, pyrophoric alloys, and combustible materials. The new list of prohibited im- ports consisted of a limited number of items banned (or made subject to special prior authorization by the Execu- tive Council) on grounds of pub l ic policy (e .g ., materials contrary to public morals, certain alcoholic beverages, and equipment for aerial and maritime nav iga t ion). Im- portation of used u t i l i ty vehicles for agriculture and for- estry continued to require prior authorization by the Ministry of National Economy, Indus t ry, and Foreign Trade. Payments for Invisibles January 17. The Bank of Zaire informed the Zairian Bankers Association that official foreign exchange could no longer be made available for travel expenses of all kinds. April 19, Expatriate workers were required to subm it their applications for outward remittance of remunera- tion abroad before August 31, 1983; the amount of transferable remuneration remained limited to the 1981 levels, wh i le that for new ly hired expatriates continued to be fixed by the Bank of Zaire. September 12. Authorization was granted for com- mercial banks to allocate up to 75 percent of their re- tained earnings from exports and invisibles for import payments and associated expenses (including those for preshipment control and costs of foreign f inanc ing ob- tained abroad). The banks were, however, still required to observe the limit of 25 percent on payments for inv is- ibles (other than those treated as expenses associated with imports). September 15. Au thor iza t ion was granted for resi- dents to make purchases of foreign exchange at the authorized commercial banks for the fo l low ing invisible transactions: travel expenses, medical expenses, and stu- dents' tu i t ion and l iv ing costs, as well as tra in ing ex- penses incurred abroad; banks could validate such re- quests w i thout the prior authorization of the Bank of Zaire only if the 25 percent l im it on their invisibles sales was observed. Unused balances of such foreign ex- change sales were required to be surrendered to the respective authorized banks. October 12. The Bank of Zaire prohibited export (and import) of Zairian means of payment by both resident and nonresident travelers, w i th the exception of travelers from Burundi and Rwanda. In addition, all arriving ZAIRE travelers were required to declare the amount of foreign means of payment in their possession. Exports and Export Proceeds January 6. Trade in artisanal gold and diamonds was liberalized, in the form of authorization granted to a number of marketing agencies to purchase these com- modities from producers and to dispose of their repatri- ated proceeds through the commercial banks at a sub- stantially depreciated rate (called the relance miniere rate). January 6. Producers of artisanal gold and diamonds were authorized to open relance miniere exchange (RME) accounts, in which they could retain up to 50 per- cent of the foreign exchange proceeds of their sales to the authorized buyers. Such accounts could be debited for sales of foreign exchange to the bank ing system, import payments ( inc lud ing freight and insurance and other re- lated costs), payments on commercial arrears, and, w i th the approval of the Bank of Zaire, other authorized international current payments. In addition, authorized buyers under this arrangement were allowed to retain up to 50 percent of their foreign exchange earnings in spe- cial accounts (the so-called DAR-RME or OAR-RME accounts, or exporter DAR-RME or exporter OAR-RME accounts), w i th the balance to be sold to the banks. The latter category of accounts could be credited w i th (a) pro- ceeds from foreign borrowing, including refinancing w i th the prior approval of the Bank of Zaire, and (b) transfers from nonresident foreign exchange accounts and convertible accounts in zaires, wh i le the DAR-RME or OAR-RME accounts, as well as exporter DAR-RME or exporter OAR-RME accounts, could be debited for (a) purchases of foreign exchange against zaires by the banking system; (b) transfers to RME accounts; (c) im- port payments on account of imports made for "produc- tive" purposes; (d) transfers to other DAR-RME or OAR-RME accounts; (e) payments to nonresidents on account of foreign borrowing; (f) payments of ad valorem taxes to OFIDA; and (g) w i th the prior approval of the Bank of Zaire, transfers to other exporter DAR- RME or OAR-RME accounts of the same authorized holders. March 7. Marketing arrangements for the sale of Zaire's industrial diamonds through the De Beers Group were re-established. September 12. The facility for RME accounts was abolished, and authorized banks were requested to pur- chase for their own use the net credit balances of these accounts by September 20, 1983, w i th the exception of GECAMINES and certain other companies for which the Bank of Zaire allowed a longer transition period. Holders of DAR-RME or OAR-RME accounts could, un t il mid-October 1983, use their net credit balances to cover foreign currency commitments or make provisions for letters of credit, or sell the net credit balances to authorized banks at the free exchange rates. Separately, the 30 percent foreign exchange surrender requirement by commercial banks to the Bank of Zaire was abol- ished, and most export retention quotas were terminated, 539 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE with the exception of those covered by international credit agreements (notably GECAMINES) and bilateral agreements between the Government and foreign part- ners. Authorization to ma in ta in export retention quotas outside the new regulations was required to be obtained in writing from the Bank of Zaire by mid-December 1983. In addition, the special tax (taxe conjoncturelle) on exports of coffee was abolished retroactively from August 11, 1982. Capital October 5. It was announced that prior approval of the Bank of Zaire would be required for residents to maintain existing foreign currency accounts abroad or open any such new accounts. Such accounts could be maintained or opened only if they were covered by in terna t ional credit agreements or by bilateral agree- ments between the Government of Zaire and foreign partners. The accounts were required to be in the form of sight or time deposits, and to be interest bearing. In add i t ion, an exchange fee of 3 per mil on the zai're value of foreign exchange transactions carried out through such accounts would be payable by the holder to the Bank of Zaire. Holders of such accounts were required to use available funds in the accounts before tu rn ing to the interbank foreign exchange market in Za'ire. October 12. The Bank of Zaire prohibited export (and import) of Zairian means of paymen t. 540 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zambia is the Zambian Kwacha for which the intervention currency is the U .S. dollar. Be- ginning July 6, 1983, the kwacha is pegged to a basket of currencies based on Zambia's trade w i th its major trad- ing partners. Zambia avails itself of margins of 2.5 percent around the fixed relationship w i th the currency basket. The Bank of Zambia deals w i th the Government and with authorized banks in U.S. dollars and sterling. Authorized banks are free to deal in other currencies at rates based on daily rates provided by the Bank of Zam- bia, or on the basis of cross rates w i th the U.S. dollar prevailing in international foreign exchange markets. In its dealings with the commercial banks the Bank of Zambia applies a margin of 0.25 percent for purchases of foreign exchange and 0.50 percent for sales. Authorized banks are permitted to charge an additional 1 percent on either side for sales and purchases of U.S. dollars, and 1.50 percent for sales and purchases of other currencies, when quoting their rates to customers. A levy of 10 per- cent is imposed on sales of foreign exchange for overseas travel. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zam- bia under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The con- trol of trade is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, which also issues import and export licen- ses. Overall import policy is determined by the Ministe- rial Committee on Foreign Exchange. Prescription of Currency Authorized payments, including payments for im- ports, by residents of Zambia to residents of other coun- tries may be made in Zambian currency to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency. Pay- ments from residents of other countries may be received in sterling or in Zambian currency from an External Account, or in any foreign currency freely exchangeable for U.S. dollars or sterling. All permitted commercial transactions w i th residents of Zimbabwe are subject to the same exchange control provisions as are applied to any External Account country. However, restrictions on the repatriation of blocked assets of residents of Zim- babwe remain unchanged for the time being (see also section on Nonresident Accounts, below). External Accounts .1 These accounts may be credited w i th authorized payments from residents of Zambia, w i th transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency by non- residents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments for any purpose to residents of Zambia, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency from authorized banks. Blocked Accounts in Zambian currency held with au- thorized banks by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited w i th nontransferable capital sums in Zambian currency. All debits and credits to such ac- counts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, except that the accounts of emigrants may be debited each year for the permitted anniversary allow- ance for a remittance to the country of residence of the account holder. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances on Blocked Accounts in Zambian securities, provided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence, except interest on existing blocked assets due a resident of Zimbabwe. Following the l i f t ing of sanctions against Zimbabwe, balances in previously Blocked Accounts of Zimbabwean residents remain nontransferable pending agreement on settlement of Zambian residents' Blocked Accounts in Zimbabwe. Imports and Import Payments The import from all countries of certain specified commodities is prohibited for reasons of health, safety, or public policy. Personal and household effects, sam- ples, diplomatic shipments, and means of transportation entering Zambia temporarily do not require individual import licenses, nor do any other goods for personal use and consumption, provided that the person importing them does not import more than K 50 worth of such goods in any period of 90 days. However, no payment may be made for goods not licensed, even where the value is less than K 50. The import of goods up to a value of K 500 that does not involve a remittance of foreign exchange is also exempt from a licensing re- quirement. The Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines and the Ministry of Health are granted priority for bona fide requirements. The Controller of Customs is authorized to admit emergency goods imported without prior reference to the Ministry of Commerce. All other imports require ind iv idual import licenses. Import licensing aims at containing imports within a quarterly exchange allocation established by the Ministe- rial Committee on Foreign Exchange, in consultation Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held w i th authorized banks by residents of other countries are designated Authorized banks are required to obtain prior permission of the exchange control authorities before designating any new External Account except where the account is to be opened for a temporary visitor. 541 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA with the Bank of Zambia. However, subject to approval, imports may be licensed without allocation of exchange. All imports under individual licensing are divided into three-digit groups following the Standard International Trade Classification system and into end-use groupings. Exchange allocations are specified for each of these categories. Normally, raw materials, intermediate goods for further processing in Zambia, Pharmaceuticals, and fuel and electricity are licensed liberally; alcoholic bev- erages, tobacco, durable consumer goods, and other con- sumer goods are licensed restrictively. No licenses are being issued for items that are also produced locally. In principle, foreign exchange for import payments is auto- matically made available once an import license has been obtained, subject to presentation of the relevant docu- ments to an authorized bank, including a clean report of findings issued by the Societe Generate de Surveillance (SGS) of Geneva, which verifies the price, qua l i ty, and quantity in the country of origin or shipment. Importers must obtain the approval of the Bank of Zambia before letters of credit can be opened by the commercial banks, and all financial arrangements be- tween importers and foreign suppliers for the supply of goods on credit must be approved by the Bank of Zam- bia. All imports except those financed by suppliers' credits must be financed by letters of credit with mini- mum terms of 90 days. The commercial banks are noti- fied every six months about the maximum amount of letters of credit that each bank may open. Importers intending to import goods not involving use of official foreign exchange must obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Zambia before applying to the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry for a "no currency" import license. Importers must have the import license approved by the Ministerial Committee on Foreign Exchange before presenting it for approval by the Bank of Zambia and subsequently to the commercial banks for the issuance of letters of credit. The commercial banks are required to submit to the Bank of Zambia a weekly return on letters of credit opened, giving specified pieces of information. Most imported goods are subject to a sales tax of 12.50 percent of taxable value, which is calculated as the sum of (1) 120 percent of the customs value; (2) the applicable customs duty; and (3) 25 percent of the sum of (1) and (2). Certain import payments are in arrears; these arrears have been centralized, and the Bank of Zambia is settling them in accordance with certain priorities. Payments for Invisibles Payments in foreign exchange for freight and other charges on imports require the prior approval of the Bank of Zambia. The basic exchange allowance for business travel is K 150 a person a day for up to 12 days a calendar year and is limited to two trips a year; exchange for this purpose must have the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Applications for remittance abroad of part or all of payments for advertising, management, accounting, ad- ministrative, engineering, and consulting services ren- 542 dered to residents by nonresidents are subject to indi- vidual approval by the Bank of Zambia, which generally grants the required permission, provided that the fees charged are reasonable, that they relate to existing con- tracts, and that these services cannot be provided domes- t ica l ly .2 Profits and dividends of subsidiaries and bran- ches of companies whose head offices are situated out- side Zambia may be transferred abroad up to 15 percent of the nonresident share of the equity capital, or 50 per- cent of net profits accruing to the nonresident owners of incorporated companies, whichever is smaller.3 Expa- triate farmers are permitted to remit 12.5 percent of their after-tax profits including profits earned from a partner- ship or private limited company engaged in farming. A further 10 percent may be held to their credit every year for eventual remittance when they leave Zambia. Such remittances are allowed once a year after the end of the accounting year. The remittance of depreciation allow- ances is not permitted. Any airline not landing and pick- ing up passengers in Zambia is not allowed to remit funds abroad except for those funds already accumulated in Zambia. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia on a contract made after December 4, 1971 are allowed to remit one third of their annual earnings (subject to a maximum of K 7,000) to the country nominated when the contract was registered with the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these arrange- ments are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, maintenance, etc.; their leave salary, gratuity, and other terminal benefits are transferable only on completion of the contract period and are subject to a ceiling of K 8,000 on departure, or on completion of contract. Remittances of up to K 20 a year are normally approved by the exchange control authorities for family maintenance. Travelers leaving Zambia may take out a max imum of K 10 in Zambian currency. Certain current payments for invisibles are in arrears. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over K 50 require a license, except those covered by an open general license; miner- als are exported under general agreements with the min- ing companies. The export of certain metals is reserved, in principle, for an official agency, the Metal Marketing Corporation. Certain commodities are subject to licens- ing mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials, such as implements of war, lead in any form, certain minerals, petroleum prod- ucts, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and 2Services rendered by a parent company abroad to its branch or wholly owned subsidiary in Zambia are not generally approved. 3An auditor's certificate must be submitted to the effect that the amount to be transferred represents bona fide realized profits derived from the year's operations after fu ll provision has been made for local taxation. The profit and loss account and balance sheet for the year in respect of which application is being made must also be submitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution old metals, and jute bags. For most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months of the date of shipment; the Zambian Corpora- tion for Copper Mining may retain up to 35 percent of its export proceeds to meet its own needs, but the balance must be credited to a Bank of Zambia account in London upon receipt. All exports must be financed through irrev- ocable letters of credit and be registered with the Bank of Zambia. As an incentive, 50 percent of export proceeds is allowed to be retained by the exporter on application to the Bank of Zambia. Unless evidence of conversion of at least an equivalent amount in exchange can be provided, hotel bills payable by nonresidents must be settled in foreign exchange. Nonnational agricultural producers are eligible for cer- tain incentives in the form of foreign exchange, on the basis of every standard bag of maize, wheat, soybean, or tobacco sold by them in excess of the prescribed number of bags. Corresponding foreign exchange incentives for national agricultural producers are made available on application to the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be of- fered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limita- tion on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, except that travelers from Zaire are allowed to import only up to the equivalent of K 20. Travelers arriving in Zambia may bring in a maximum of K 10 in Zambian currency. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, but with the exception of overseas short-term financing of imports other than certain capital goods, all borrowing outside Zambia requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Zambia. The repatriation is generally spread over a period longer than three years. Local borrowing by companies con- trolled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is restricted to a debt-equity ratio of 1 to 3. However, the Bank of Zambia permits borrowings in excess of this limit for certain priority sectors of the economy, pro- vided that the borrowings secure higher employment opportunities or savings of foreign exchange. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capi- tal abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange ZAMBIA which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Zambian securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges abroad, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that, in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities, the sales proceeds will be repatriated. All income earned from these investments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Per- sons 50 years of age and over are allowed K 8,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 5,000. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed K 4,000 on departure, together with K 250 for each child, up to a maximum of K 5,000 for a family unit. Thereafter, annual transfers of K 3,000, together with K 250 for each child, up to a maximum of K 4,000 for a family unit are permitted. (3) Unmarried persons under 50 are al- lowed K 2,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 1,500. In addition to their emigration allowance, emigrants may remit gratuities, compensa- tion payments, up to one third of leave pay, and terminal benefits up to a maximum of K 8,000 on departure, or on completion of contract. In addition, there are special facilities for expatriate farmers for the transfer of profits up to certain limits (see section on Payments for Invis- ibles, above). Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized indus- trial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange control approval as well as import or export licenses issued by the Minister of Commerce; such li- censes are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold-bearing sludge is exported by cop- per companies for refining and sale abroad. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may be provided with the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement January 7. The kwacha was devalued by 20 percent against the SDR. July 6. The peg for the kwacha was switched from the SDR to a basket of currencies based on Zambia's trade with major trading partners. Exports and Export Proceeds September 19. Authorization was granted for the Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines to retain up to 35 percent of its export proceeds to meet its own needs. 543 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE (Position on December 31, 1983) Exchange Arrangement The currency of Zimbabwe is the Zimbabwe Dollar. The exchange rate of the Zimbabwe dollar is determined on the basis of fixed relationships to a trade-weighted basket of currencies. The U .S. dollar is the intervention currency. The spread applied by the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe between the buying and selling rates is 0.8 percent for major currencies and 1.0 percent for other currencies. An additional 0.25 percent on either side of the quoted rates of major currencies may be charged by authorized dealers (authorized commercial and merchant banks). The authorized dealers base their rates for other currencies on current international market rates. On December 31, 1983 the official buying and selling rates for the U .S. dollar quoted by the Reserve Bank in its dealings w i th authorized dealers were US$0.9082 and US$0.9010, respectively, per Z$ l. Forward exchange contracts are permitted only for trade transactions. There is no limit on the amount of such contracts, but these must be limited to periods of three to six months. The Reserve Bank is prepared to cover forward transactions and, at present, quotes fixed discount or premium rates for major currencies. There are no taxes or subsidies on purchases or sales of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank, under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance, in terms of the Exchange Control Ac t, Chap- ter 170, and the Exchange Control Regulations of 1977. Authorized dealers have been empowered to approve certain foreign exchange transactions in accordance with Exchange Control Instructions Issued to Authorized Dealers (July 1, 1981, as amended) and Exchange Control Circulars issued periodically. Import and export controls are administered in accordance with the Control of Goods (Import and Export) (Agriculture) Regulations of 1965, as amended, the Control of Goods (Import and Export) (Commerce) Regulations of 1974, as amended, the Control of Goods (Export of Minerals and Metals) Order, 1979, the Control of Goods (Open General Import License) Notice of 1979, and the Control of Goods (Open General Export License) Notice, 1977. Prescription of Currency All payments by nonresidents to residents must be effected in denominated currencies,1 with the exception of payments otherwise specified or effected through nonresident accounts. 'There are 17 denominated currencies wh ich are freely convertible through authorized dealers: Austrian sch i l l ings, Belgian francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U .S. dollars. 544 Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be opened with the ap- proval of the exchange control authorities by persons who have never been residents of Zimbabwe. Nonresi- dent accounts may be credited with foreign currencies, w i th payments from other nonresident accounts, or w i th payments by residents that would be eligible for transfer outside Zimbabwe. Nonresident accounts may be deb- ited for payments to residents, for payments to other nonresident accounts, or for payments abroad. Only former residents now residing outside of Zimbabwe may maintain emigrants' accounts in Zimbabwe. Cash assets held in Zimbabwe in the names of emigrants must be blocked in these accounts, and all payments to and from these accounts are strictly subject to various exchange restrictions. Imports and Import Payments2 With the exception of products covered by the Open General Import License (OGIL), all imports are subject to licensing requirements. (At present the OGIL covers very few items.) Import licenses are issued only against a certificate of foreign exchange allocation. Global foreign exchange allocations are decided by an Interministerial Committee, chaired by the Ministry of Finance, and are made available through the Ministry of Trade and Commerce and the Ministry of Industry and Energy. The Ministry of Trade and Commerce basically handles allocations for goods in the commercial category, while those in the industrial category are handled by the Ministry of Industry and Energy. Imports in the commer- cial category include imports by merchants of raw materials, machinery, and spare parts for resale to manufacturers and the public sector, as well as consumer goods; those in the industrial category consist of direct importation by industrialists of raw materials, ma- ch inery, and spare parts. For purposes of allocating commercial imports, ind iv idual products are classified into five categories in accordance w i th the degree of essentiality. (In the manufac tur ing sector, because of employment considerations, similar priority ratings are not so strictly applied.) Foreign exchange is allocated to individual commercial importers for single tariff items (with facilities for a limited degree of transferability between items), whereas foreign exchange allocated to manufacturers is for a group of tariff items appropriate to the industrial division concerned. Manufacturers receive through the Ministry of Industry and Energy Devel- opment separate allocations for raw materials required for production for the local and export markets; the 2The import allocation program announced by the Zimbabwean authorities in January 1984 implied a reduction of about 20 percent in value terms during the first half of the year, compared with imports du r ing the corresponding period of the preceding year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution former is assessed on the basis of priority and foreign exchange availability, while the latter is in the form of initial allocations based on past performance, with possible additional allocation from an export revolving fund against proof of exports. Allocations granted during the first and third quarters of the year may be carried forward and added to those granted in the second and fourth quarters, respectively. Import licenses have to be drawn against foreign exchange allocation certificates at the time orders are placed. The normal validity of import licenses is six months from the end of the month of issue, but the validity period can be extended in certain circumstances. Import licenses are normally issued without geographical restriction and importers are free to choose the country of supply. Licenses are issued on an f .o .b. basis and do not, therefore, cover the invisibles element of the transactions. Imports of certain goods (mostly agricultural and processed food products) require a special permit issued by the Ministry of Agriculture. Certain agricultural products (coffee, maize, sorghum, soybeans, and wheat) may be imported only by the Grain Marketing and Cotton Marketing Boards or by others with the permis- sion of the Boards. No quotas are in force, but seasonal restrictions are applied in the case of certain agricultural products. Authorized dealers may approve applications to effect payments for authorized imports, provided necessary documentation (including the details of import licenses or open general licenses) is submitted. Payments for imports into Zimbabwe from all countries may be made in Zimbabwean currency to a local nonresident account or in any foreign currency. The customs duty regime consists mainly of ad valorem duties, which range up to 40 percent, and specific duties on a number of products. Generally, imports are subject to an additional tax of 18 percent or 23 percent, which is the countervailing levy to the sales tax imposed at the same rates on goods sold domestically. Most imports are subject to a surtax of 20 percent. Payments for Invisibles^ Foreign exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports and, w i th in certain limits, for other purposes is provided by commercial banks under delegated author- ity. Applications for foreign exchange exceeding the limit established for commercial banks are approved by the Reserve Bank, which deals with each case on its merits. The basic foreign exchange allowance for holiday travel is Z$60 a day up to a max imum of Z$360 for a 12-month period. The allowance may be accumulated up to three years but it is not granted in advance. (Children 3In a tightening of exchange controls, the Zimbabwe authorities on March 27, 1984 announced a number of restraints on inv i s ib le payments, including a temporary suspension of outward remittances of profits, dividends, rents, and certain interest payments. ZIMBABWE under ten are entitled to one half of these amounts.) The basic foreign exchange allowance for import-related business travel is Z$100 a day up to a maximum of Z$ 1,500 a trip, w i th an overall annual maximum of Z$3,000; for export-related business travel, the ex- change allowance is Z$125 a day for a max imum of Z$2,000 a trip and an annual limit of Z$4,000. Applica- tions for business travel allowance exceeding the speci- fied limits are subject to the approval of the Reserve Bank. Foreign exchange is provided for education abroad beyond the secondary school level, w i th in the following limits: Z$2,750 a year for education at universities other than those in the United States and the United Kingdom, and Z$6,000 a year for education at specified universities in the United States and the United Kingdom. For medical treatment, foreign exchange is provided up to Z$20 a day for a max imum period of 30 days for the patient and any necessary accompanying companion. Remittances of up to Z$40 for subscriptions to religious and educational societies, and Z$20 for other societies are allowed; the limit for an initial membership fee is Z$50. Remittances to close relatives permanently resident outside Zimbabwe, not exceeding Z$30 a month for each individual beneficiary and Z$60 a month for each family un i t, are permitted with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Outward remittances in respect of fees for technical, administrative, management, and consultancy services or to defray external expenses of local branches are subject to a tax of 20 percent. As regards remittances of dividends and profits, shareholders may freely remit all declared dividends for financial years ending on or after March 31, 1981 (or June 30, 1980 for those whose dividends were not blocked previously), provided that the total so declared by a company does not exceed 50 percent of the company's after-tax profits. Dividends in excess of 50 percent of the after-tax profits of companies in favor of nonresidents are blocked, but these limitations do not apply to ind iv idual shareholders who have never been resident in Zimbabwe. Blocked dividends, interest, and other incomes ( inc lud ing 50 percent of after-tax branch profits) that had accrued dur ing the period 1965—73 to companies (except insurance companies) domiciled in previously designated countries (Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States) are released over a six- year period by means of special, six-year government bonds w i th an annual interest rate of 4 percent; one sixth of such bonds would be redeemable annually from the end of the first year. Outward transfers of interest earnings under this scheme are subject to a tax of 10 percent. Interest accruing from Ju ly 1, 1980 on all blocked funds of companies and corporations domiciled in the designated countries is freely transferable, as is all interest accruing in favor of individuals resident in the former designated countries (subject to a max imum of Z$15,000 a year for former residents). Applications for emigrant status must be submitted to the Reserve Bank. Transferable allowances at the time of emigration are as follows: (1) single persons under the 545 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZIMBABWE age of 40 years, Z$500; (2) single persons aged 40-59 years, Z$l,000; (3) family units and single persons w i th dependents (under 60 years of age), Z$ 1,000; (4) fam i ly un i ts (husband over 60 years of age) and single persons over 60, Z$7,000; (5) persons over 80 years of age, Z$10,000; (6) widows (no age restriction), Z$10,000; and (7) handicapped or disabled persons, Z$l0,000. A further release of capital is made as an annual allowance on the anniversary date of the em igran t's departure, as follows: persons over 65 years of age, Z$2,000 and persons over 70 years of age, Z$3,000. Emigrants who left Zimbabwe prior to January 1, 1980 and who had blocked assets in Zimbabwe not exceeding Z$ 1,000 may apply for the immediate release of such funds; those w i th blocked assets of more than Z$ 1,000 but less than Z$3,000 may also apply for the release of such funds through placement in the above-mentioned special gov- ernment bonds. A traveler leaving Zimbabwe may take ou t, as part of the travel allowance, not more than Z$20 in Zimbab- wean currency together w i th a max imum of the equiva- lent of Z$20 in foreign bank notes. Nonresident travelers may take out traveler's checks they imported less the amount sold to authorized dealers. Upon departure from Zimbabwe, nonresident travelers may reconvert unspent Zimbabwean currency into foreign currencies against presentation of exchange certificates. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses are required to export certain products wh ich are not covered by the OGIL; these inc lude (1) any ore, concentrate, or other manufac tured product of chrome, copper, l i th ium, n icke l, t in, or tungs ten; (2) petroleum products; (3) ju te and hessian bags; (4) road or rail tankers for carrying l iqu ids or sem i l iqu id s; (5) b i tumen, asphalt, and tar; (6) wild an ima ls and wild animal products; (7) certain wood products; (8) ammon ium nitrate; and (9) implements of wa r. In add i t ion to security and social reasons, export licensing require- ments are intended to ensure adequate domestic supply of essential products. Goods may not be exported without permission, unless the customs authorities are satisfied that payment has been made in an approved manner or w i ll be so made within three months from the date of shipment or such longer period as may be permitted by the Reserve B ank. Payments for exports must be received w i th in 90 days in the following manner: (1) in a denominated currency; (2) in Zimbabwean currency from a nonresident account; and (3) in the case of Ma lawi and Botswana, by checks drawn in Malawi kwacha or Botswana pu la, respec- tively. In add i t ion, exports to some 50 countries are approved only upon advance payment of export proceeds or if payment is covered by an irrevocable letter of credit issued or confirmed prior to export by a reputable overseas bank. Export receipts must be sold to au tho- rized dealers. 546 Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from inv is ib les are required to be sold to authorized banks w i th in a reasonable period of time. Residents perform ing professional services abroad are not permitted to retain any part of the ir foreign exchange earnings, and such earnings are required to be sold to an au thor ized b a n k. Foreign currency and traveler's checks may be imported w i thout restrictions but must be sold or exchanged in Z imbabwe on ly through authorized deal- ers. A traveler may bring in Z imbabwean currency up to a m ax imum of Z$20. Capital Inward transfers of capital through normal banking channels are not restricted. Ou tward transfers of cap i tal are controlled, but all foreign inve s tmen t s, irrespective of their source, which are unde r taken through normal bank ing channels since September 1, 1979 may be considered for repatriation after two years, subject to the requ irement that the amount to be repatriated w i ll be reduced by any profits remitted in the in t e r im. Where such au tho r i ty is granted, the balance may be transferred on ly through the estab- lished med ium of s ix -yea r, government bonds bearing in terest at the rate of 4 percent a year. The repatriation of capital invested before Septem- ber 1, 1979 is proh ib i ted; however, shareholders are allowed w i t h in l im i ts to apply to the Reserve Bank for the remittance of such capital upon the sale of shares to local res iden ts, and if such app l ica t ion is approved, the capital is inves ted in s ix -yea r, 4 percent government bonds bearing interest at the rate of 4 percent a year. Income accruing in Z imbabwe to former residents who have emigrated is rem i t tab le up to an annual l im it of Z$15,000. The rem i t tab i l i ty of the Zimbabwean pension of a former res ident is guaranteed under the Cons t i tu t ion. All other outward t rans fe rs of capital are subject to approval by the Reserve Bank, as are dealings in external securities. Gold The export of gold in unm anu f a c tu r ed form is con- trolled and licensed under the Control of Goods (Export of Minerals and Metals) Order, 1979. The administration of the Order is the respons ib i l i ty of the Ministry of M ines. No person may export any precious metal and certain other specified metals and minerals unless he holds an export license; no such licenses for gold are issued. These controls do no t, however, apply to the Reserve Bank. The import of gold is controlled by the Gold Trade Ac t. The Act provides for certain require- •ments to be met where a person in tends to import gold into Zimbabwe. No person, e i ther as p r inc ipal or agent, is entitled to deal in or possess gold un less (1) he is the holder of a license or permit; or (2) he is the holder or d is tr ibu tor of a registered m i n i ng location from wh ich gold is being produced; or (3) he is the employee or agent of any of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution persons mentioned in (1) and (2) above, and is autho- rized by his employer or principal to deal in or possess gold in the law ful possession of such employer or principal. A m in ing commissioner may issue to any person a permit authorizing him to acquire or to be in possession of or to dispose of any gold, provided the quan t i ty does not exceed one troy ounce. In all other cases, permission can on ly be issued by the Secretary for Mines. Three types of licenses may be issued under the terms of the Gold Trade Act: a gold dealing license, a gold recovery works license, and a gold assay ing license. Barclays Bank International Ltd. is the only authorized dealer under the terms of the Act, and each holder or distributor of a registered m in ing location is required to lodge w i th this bank all gold acquired by him in the course of his operations by the ten th day of the month following that in which the gold was produced. When a person intends to smelt any gold or any ar t ic le containing gold, he must first obtain a license issued by a district commissioner under the terms of the Second Hand Goods Act authorizing him to be in possession of smelting equipment. Changes During 1983 Exchange Arrangement January. The exchange rate of the Zimbabwe dollar was changed on several occasions in Janua ry from ZIMBABWE Z$0.91945 - US$1 at the beginning to Z$0.96135 = US$1 at the end of the mon th, representing a cumu la t ive devaluation of 5 percent. Prescription of Currency December 31. Zimbabwe reactivated a dormant trade agreement concluded w i th Tanzan ia on February 1, 1981. The new agreement prov ided, in ter a l i a, for an exchange of goods up to the equ iva lent of US$0.5 m i l l i o n. Imports and Import Payments February 9. The customs du ty was increased from 41 cents a liter to 55 cents a liter for gasoline, and from 2.8 cents a l i ter to 8.8 cents a liter for diesel fue l. August I. The customs surtax on imports was in- creased from 15 percent to 20 percent on most imports. (Goods prev ious ly exempted remained exemp t .) In add i t ion, an ad valorem customs du ty of 15 percent was introduced on imported lorries and vans whether in assembled or unassembled fo rm. Import taxes were also raised from 16 percent to 18 percent for general goods and from 19 percent to 23 percent for higher-rated goods. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles August I. A tax of 20 percent was introduced on outward remittances in respect of fees for technical, adm in i s t ra t ive, management, and consu l tancy services or to defray external expenses of local branches. 547 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and Trade Systems in Member Countries ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first A. Acceptance of Article Status 1 . Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangement3 1 . Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (0 the U .S. dollar (H) pound sterling (H I) the French franc ( iv) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited flexibility with respect to: ( i) single currency (H) cooperative arrangement (c) More flexible arrangements: ( i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (H) other managed f loa t ing (H I) independently f loa t ing 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 3. Import rate(s) d i f fe rent from export rate(s) 4. More than one rate for imports 5. More than one rate for exports C. Prescription of Currency D. Bilateral Payments Arrangemen ts 1 . w i th members 2. with nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1 . Restrictions on payments for current transactions5 2. Restrictions on payments for capital transactions5-6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1 . Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender Requirement for Export Proceeds For key and footnotes, see page 555. A f n a h g i s t n a CO i< A n i t a u g d n a B a r a d u b COc 1A u s r t a i l a A u s i r t a B a h a m s a B h a r a i n B g n a l s e d a h OS) B e l g i u m d n a L e x u m u o b r g ai jS "£& Am -5*> "o m B o t s w a n a D B u r d n u i D C a m e r n o o C a d a n a •8o> ! cii §o < 1 I "O CO6 550 Brazil Burma ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Trade Systems in Member Countries1 country page)2 &QC *4> 1>1 ™ Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first Iran, Islarnmic Rep. a i s e n o d n I India T3s 8 I 1 >>» 3 t s a o C y r o v I « £ ce Japan Jordan Kenya '3 £ * 1 tt ex<u& 1in jy"E,o£ 2 a y i r i h a m a J b a r A n a y b i L Lebanon £ I3 .21 ij r a c s a g a d a M .2'35>> J5"S s e v i d l a M Malawi Mail A. Acceptance of Article S ta tus 1 . Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange Arrangemen t3 1 . Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: ( i) the U .S. dollar ( / /) pound sterling ( i l l) the French f ranc ( i v) other currencies4 (v) a composite of currencies (b) Limited f lex ib i l i ty w i th respect to: ( /) single currency (11) cooperative arrangement (c) More f lex ib le arrangements: ( i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (11) other managed f loa t ing (M I) independen t ly f loa t ing 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital transac t ions and/or some or all inv is ib les 3 . Import rate(s) d i f fe rent from export rate(s) 4. More than one rate for imports 5 . More than one rate for exports C. Prescription of Currency D. Bilateral Payments Arrangemen ts 1 . w i th members 2. w i th nonmembers E. Payments Restrictions 1 . Restrictions on paymen ts for current transactions5 2. Restrictions on paymen ts for capital transactions5'6 F. Cost-Related Import Restrictions 1 . Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender Requ irement for Export Proceeds For key and footnotes, see page 555. 552 - - _ _ _ D D D a - - - - - - - - - - _ _ ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 i I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! I 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 9 1 I I 1 1 1 1 I 1 i 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 I 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 ! 1 1 I 1 i ! 1 1 1 1 I j 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 D 1 1 D 1 1 D 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 ! i 1 1 1 1 1 I 1 . 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 i 1 1 i 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 * 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 M a t l a M u a t i r n a i a M u a i t i r u s M x e i o c M o r o c c o N a p e l N e t e h l r d n a s N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e N e w Z a e l d n a N i a c r a u g a N i e g r N i e g i r a N o r w y a m O n a P k a i s t n a P a n a m a P a u p a N e w G u i a e n P a r y a u g a P e r u h P i l i p p i s e n o P t r a g u l Q a t a r R o m n a i a w R a d n a S . t L c u i a S . t V i n e c n t d n a G r d a n e i s e n S o a T o m e d « a P i r c n i e p S d u a i A r b a i a S a g e n e l S e h c y e l l s e S i e r r a L e n o e o p a g n S i r e o S l o m n o s I l d n a s o S m a i l a > S * - - 5 h U s m e t s y S e d a r T 1 s e i r t n u o C r e b m e M n i ) d e u n i t n o C ( 2 ) e g a P y r t n u o C ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Summary Features of Exchange and (as of date shown on first A. Acceptance of Article Status 1 . Article VIII status 2. Article XIV status B. Exchange A r rangemen t3 1 . Exchange rate determined on the basis of: (a) A peg to: (i) the U .S. do l lar (H) pound s ter l ing (Hi) the French franc ( / v) other currenc ies4 (v) a composite of cu r renc ies (b) Limited f l ex ib i l i ty w i th respect to: ( /) single currency ( / /) cooperative arrangement (c) More f lex ib le arrangements: (i) adjusted according to a set of indicators (H) other managed f loa t ing (Hi) independen t ly f loa t ing 2. Separate exchange rate(s) for some or all capital t ransac t ions and/or some or all i n v i s i b l es 3. Import rate(s) d i f fe rent from export rate(s) 4. More than one rate for imports 5 . More than one rate for exports C. Prescription of Currency D. Bilateral Payments Arrangemen ts 1 . with members 2. w i th nonmembers E. Payments Res tr ic t ions 1 . Restrictions on paymen ts for current transactions5 2. Restrictions on paymen ts for capital transactions5'6 F. Cost-Related Import Res tr ic t ions 1 . Import surcharges 2. Advance import deposits G. Surrender Requ irement for Export Proceeds - - - - u S i r a n m e S w z a l i d n a S w n e d e T n a z n a i a T a h l i d n a o £ T i r n i d a d d n a T o g a b o T n u i s i a 1 £ U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e U n t i d e K i o d g n m CO "o 1 >> SJ 3 00 5 V a u n a t u D V e u z e n e l a D _ W s e t e r n S a m a o - For key and footnotes, see page 555. 554 South Africa z Sri Lanka Sudan Syrian Arab Rep. Uganda United States Viet Nam ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Trade Systems in Member Countries1 (concluded) country page)2 Yemen P.D.R.of Yemen Arab Rep. Yugoslavia Zimbabwe Zambia Zaire Corrigendum Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions 1984 Footnote 3, page 555 • Key and Footnotes indicates that the specified practice is a feature of the exchange and trade system. — indicates that the specified practice is not a fea ture of the system. n indicates that the composite is the SDR. 'The l is t ing inc ludes a nonmetro- po l i tan territory (Hong Kong) for which the Un i ted K ingdom has accepted the Fund 's Articles of Agreemen t, and the Ne ther land An- tilles, wh ich is a part of the K ing- dom of the Ne the r lands. Exchange practices indicated in ind iv idual countries do not necessarily app ly to all external transac t ions. 2U s u a l ly December 31, 1983. 3It should be noted that existence of a separate rate does not neces- sarily imp ly a mu l t ip le currency practice under Fund ju r i sd ic t ion. Exchange arrangements invo lv ing transactions at a un i ta ry rate w i th a group of countries and another un i ta ry rate w i th a second group of countries are considered, from the v iewpo int of the overall economy, to invo lve two separate rates for similar transac t ions. 4Ind ian rupee, South A f r ican rand, and Spanish peseta. 5Res tr ic t ions ( i . e ., off ic ial action directly a f fec t ing the ava i lab i l i ty or cost of exchange, or invo lv ing un- due delay) on paymen ts to member coun tr ies, other than restrictions imposed for security reasons under Execu t ive Board Decision No. 144- (52 /51) adopted Augu st 14, 1952. 6Res iden t -owned f u n d s. (Moisten and affix.) 555 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution List of Abbreviations* African, Caribbean, and Pacific State signatories to the Lome Convention with the EC Asian Clearing Union Asian Monetary Un it Association of South East Asian Nations Central Bank of West African States (Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1' Quest) Bank of Central African States (Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale) Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union Central American Common Market Caribbean Common Market Customs Cooperation Council Nomenclature Economic Community of the Great Lakes Countries Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance European Community United Nations, Economic Commission for Africa East Caribbean Currency Authority East Caribbean Common Market Economic Community of West African States (CEDEAO) European Coal and Steel Community European Currency Unit European Free Trade Association European Monetary Cooperation Fund (FECOM) European Monetary Fund European Monetary System European Un it of Account European Atomic Energy Commun i ty General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Generalized System of Preferences International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank) International Development Association International Finance Corporation International Monetary Fund Latin American Free Trade Association Latin American Integration Association (ALADI) London interbank offered rate Multifiber Arrangement Most favored nation Multilateral Trade Negotiations Organization of African Un i ty Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Organization for European Economic Cooperation Special drawing right South Pacific Regional Trade and Cooperation Agreement Central African Customs and Economic Union (Union Douaniere et Economique de 1'Afrique Centrale) United Nations West African Economic Community (CEAO) ACP ACU AMU ASEAN BCEAO BEAC BLEU CACM CARICOM CCCN CEPGL CMEA EC EC A ECCA ECCM ECOWAS ECSC ECU EFTA EMCF EMF EMS EUA EURATOM GATT GSP IBRD IDA IFC IMF LAFTA LAIA LIBOR MFA MFN MTN OAU OECD OEEC SDR SPARTECA UDEAC UN WAEC *This list does not inc lude abbreviations of pure ly na t ional ins t i tu t ions mentioned in the country pages. 556 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 